　　周毅在2017国际智力运动联盟智力运动精英赛开幕式上的致辞　　（时间：12月9日下午4：00；地点：淮安大剧院）　　尊敬的陈泽兰主席、乔斯•达米亚尼先生，　　尊敬的罗超毅主任、陈刚局长、姚晓东书记：　　尊敬的各位领导、各位嘉宾，女士们、先生们：　　大家下午好！　　Respected President Chen Zelan， Mr。 José Damiani；　　Respected Director Luo Chaoyi， Director Chen Gang， ； leaders and guests， ladies and gentlemen，　　Good afternoon！　　体育运动彰显着生命的活力，承载着人类友好交流的使命。今天，2017国际智力运动联盟智力运动精英赛在淮安正式拉开帷幕。在此，我谨代表淮安市委、市政府和560万淮安人民，向出席活动的各位领导、各位嘉宾、媒体朋友和参加比赛的国内外运动员、教练员和裁判员表示热烈的欢迎！　　Sports manifests the vitality of life and carries the mission of friendly exchanges of people。 Today， 2017 IMSA Elite Mind Games has its opening ceremony in Huai’an。 Hereby， on behalf of Huai’an Municipal CPC Committee and Municipal People’s Government as well as 5.6 million Huai’an citizens， I’d like to extend my warmest welcome to the leaders， guests， friends from the media circle， athletes， coaches， and judges at home and abroad。　　淮安是一代伟人周恩来总理的故乡，千里淮河与千年大运河在此交汇，聚江淮之灵秀，融南北之风情，孕育了“包容天下、崛起江淮”的新时期淮安精神；　　Huai’an is the birthplace of Mr。 Zhou Enlai， the first premier of New China and is a city where a-thousand-li Huaihe and the Grand Canal of a thousand years meet。 It not only has the beautiful scenery of Jianghuai Plain but also the romance of the north and the south， which gives birth to the city spirit of The Rise from the Jianghuai Plain and Be Inclusive to the Rest of the World in the new era。　　全国历史文化名城、运河之都、淮扬菜之乡、台资集聚高地、国家卫生城市、国家园林城市、国家环保模范城市和全国生态市、中国优秀旅游城市等靓丽的城市名片，向世人展示了一座古典文化与现代文明交相辉映的生态文旅水城的魅力。　　Huai’an has numerous name cards including Famous National Historical and Cultural City， City along the Grand Canal， Birthplace to the Huaiyang Cuisine， Highland of Taiwanese Investment Cluster， National Sanitary City， National Garden City， National Environmental Protection Model City，National Ecological City and China Excellent Tourism City 。 All of these cards show the charm of a cultural and ecological city of water that the classical culture and modern civilization add radiance and beauty to each other。　　近年来，我们在习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想的指引下，扎实推进更高水平全面小康和苏北重要中心城市建设，经济社会实现了持续健康快速发展，体育事业也取得长足进步，竞技体育、群众体育和体育产业呈现出融合发展、各显特色的喜人景象。　　In recent years， under the guidance of Xi Jinping‘s socialism thoughts with Chinese characteristics in the new era， we have steadfastly pushed forward the building a higher-level well-off society and an important central city in northern Jiangsu。 Our economy and society have achieved sustained， healthy and rapid development。 Sports has also made great strides and progress。 Competitive sports， mass sports and sports industries have shown a gratifying scene of integration and development with distinctive features。　　淮安是中国象棋的发明者、千古名将韩信的故乡，也是流行于大江南北的“淮安掼蛋”游戏的发源地，智力运动在这里有着悠久的历史渊源和深厚的群众基础。　　Huai’an is the hometown of Han Xin， a famous ancient Chinese military strategist and the inventor of Chinese chess。 It is also the birthplace of the Huai’an Guandan that is popular all over China。 The Mind Games not only has a long history but also has a profound mass base here。　　2016年，淮安首次承办了棋牌界的顶级赛事——国际智力运动联盟智力运动精英赛，不仅让广大市民有机会在家门口欣赏到高水平的赛事，吸引更多的人了解、喜爱和投身智力运动，也让淮安更好地融入了国际体育文化交流格局，推动体育事业加快发展。　　In 2016， Huai’an hosted for the first time a top-notch event-IMSA Elite Mind Games， which not only gives the general public the opportunity to enjoy high-level events at their doorsteps and attracts more people to understand， love and join mind games， but also better integrates Huai’an into the international sports and cultural exchanges so as to promote the development of sports。　　今年，我们有幸再次承办这项重要赛事，作为东道主，将努力提供热情周到细致的服务，保障赛事的圆满举办。　　This year， we are honored to host this important Games again。 As the host， we will strive to provide warm and thoughtful service to ensure the successful hosting of the Games。　　我们相信，在大家的共同努力下，本届赛事一定会办成更高水平、富有特色、精彩纷呈的体育盛会，成为切蹉技艺、交流文化和增进友谊的重要平台。　　We believe that with the joint efforts of us all， this Games will surely become a sports feast with higher level， full of characteristics and brilliance。 It will become an important platform for learning skills from each other， exchanging culture and enhancing friendship。　　我们希望，“淮安掼蛋”这项极富挑战性和趣味性的特色运动，能够为更多的人所认识、所喜爱，为智力运动的普及推广做出积极贡献，让更多人分享智力运动的快乐。　　We hope that Huai’an Guandan， a challenging and interesting special sports can make a positive contribution to the popularization of mind games and be known and loved by more people and help more people share happiness brought by mind games。　　我们诚挚邀请各位嘉宾常到淮安走一走、看一看，底蕴深厚的历史文化、清新秀美的自然风光、大块朵颐的淮扬美食，一定会给您留下深刻的印象和长久的回味！　　We sincerely invite all the distinguished guests to walk around and come frequently to Huai‘an 。 I believe the city， with profound history and culture， beautiful scenery and delicious Huaiyang Cuisine will give you a deep impression！　　最后，祝本次赛事取得圆满成功！祝各位领导、各位来宾、各位选手、身体健康、工作顺利、阖家幸福！　　In conclusion， I would like to wish this Games a complete success and all the leaders， distinguished guests， and athletes prosperous career， good health， happy family lives and all the best！