　　来源：新东方在线 　　四六级有一些经典句型是考生必须要掌握的句型，无论是在阅读还是在写译中都能应用到。新东方在线四六级教研室精选10个经典句型，为考生提供参考：　　1. "may as well not…as"结构，此结构可译为"与其……不如不……"　　One may as well not know a thing at all as know it but imperfectly.　　2. "have only to …do"结构，此结构表示"只须(消)……就能……"的意思　　We have only to turn to that extraordinary discovery made by Edison to see the significance of it.　　3. "as it were"是一个非常常用的插入语，意思是"好象"，"可以说"等。　　A piece of iron near a magnet, though apparently separate from it, feels, as it were, the threads of this attachment.　　4. 复杂结构，在下面例句中，由于anyone的定语从句过长，把谓语must realize提到定语从句之前。　　Plainly enough that is too large an order, as anyone must realize who reflects upon the manner in which they reach public office.　　5. "not…any more than…"为："不能……，正如不能……"。　　One cannot learn to sketch and express himself graphically only by reading about it any more than one can learn to swim while standing by the pool.　　6. "By that as it may"是"Let it be that as it may"的省略形式，是由"be"引起的另外一种假设结构，意思是"虽然如此，尽管这样"。　　It is said that the nerve poison is the more primitive of the two, that the blood poison is, so to speak, a new product from an improved formula. Be that as it may, the nerve poison does its business with man far more quickly than the blood poison.　　7. "if at all"是一个由"if"引起的主谓结构不完整的短句结为"即使……"等。　　I can see only with great difficulty, if at all.　　8. 由there引起的句型容易产生复杂的句子结构。　　There have been opened up to the vast and excellent science, in which my work is the beginning, ways and means by which other minds more accurate than wine will explore its remote corners.　　9. 某些分隔结构　　1) 动词短语相关部分被分隔(当"make use of "，"take notice of"，"pay attention to"，等动词短语变成被动语态时)。　　Use is made of solar energy in heating houses.　　2)双重定语引起的分隔　　But there is of culture another view, in which not solely the scientific passion, the sheer desire to see things as they are, natural and proper in an intelligent being, appears as the ground of it.　　10. "to be doing…when…"是一个句型，多译为"某人正在做……时，突然……"。在简单的句子中容易看出，一旦句子变得复杂一些，可能就不太容易识别这种句型。　　She said she and a friend had gone out to dinner that night, and were walking home together at about 10 o'clock, when a "very big, very tall man", accosted them and demanded their purses.　　语法知识是英语学习的基础，对写译、阅读等题型有直接影响，同学们在英语备考中要注重语法知识的积累。新东方在线四六级教研室期待各位考生取得理想成绩。