　　The idea of sitting down for dinner with a 300lb bear is enough to put most people off their food。　　与一只300磅的熊坐在一起共享餐食绝对会使很多人弃盘而逃。　　But for one family from Russia this wild idea is actually a way of life that extends far beyond sharing the odd meal at the dinner table。 　　但是对于来自俄罗斯的一个家庭来说，这个疯狂的想法远不只是分享食物那么简单，而是成为了他们的一种生活方式。　　On the surface Svetlana and Yuriy appear like any other ordinary couple， but for their 23-year-old bear named Stepan。　　表面上斯维特拉娜和尤里就像其他普通的夫妻一样，但是对于23岁的棕熊Stepan来说，他们可不寻常。　　Russian family Svetlana and Yuriy adopted the very large bear named Stepan aged three months。　　来自俄罗斯的斯维特拉娜和尤里夫妇收养了一只三个月大名叫Stepan的大棕熊。　　One of the family： Standing at more than seven foot， the large mammal has been domesticated by the couple and is now aged 23。　　站起来足足有超过7英尺（2.13米），这只超大的动物已经被这对夫妇养到了23岁。　　Bear hug： The couple say that because they have known Stepan so long his temperament is extremely gentle and he enjoys giving hugs。　　熊抱：这对夫妇说因为他们已经认识Stepan很长时间了，因此他的性格极其温顺，而且他很喜欢给人熊抱。　　Trust： The couple say the bear is so domesticated he even sits down with them in the evenings to watch television on the sofa。　　信任：这对夫妇说这只熊已经被驯服了，因此晚上的时候他甚至会和他们坐在沙发上看电视。　　Who‘s been eating my porridge？ The couple said Stepan， who eats a lot of food， gets through more than a bowl of porridge a day。　　谁动了我的粥？这对夫妇说，Stepan每天吃好多食物，一天可以吃掉一碗粥。　　What‘s for dessert？ The big bear’s favourite dish is a can of condensed milk thanks to a sweet tooth， but he also eats fish and vegetables。　　吃什么当甜点呢？由于喜欢吃甜食，大熊最喜欢的菜是一罐炼乳，但他也吃鱼和蔬菜。　　Give us a hand！ The bear has even been known to help out around the house - or at least the garden - by watering the plants。　　小助手！这个棕熊很乐意在家周围帮忙做事情，或者至少是在花园周围-帮忙浇灌植物。　　‘When we adopted him， he was only three-months-old and had been found by hunters in the forest having lost his mother。 He was in a very bad condition。　　“当我们收养他的时候，他只有三个月大，在森林里与妈妈失散后被猎人找到了，当时他的情况很糟糕。　　‘He absolutely loves people and is a really sociable bear - despite what people might think， he is not aggressive at all。 We have never been bitten by Stepan。　　“他绝对很喜欢人类，而且是一只交际熊，不管别人怎么看他，他绝对没有攻击性。我们也从来没有被他咬伤过。　　来源 沪江英语