　　If you desperately need a reason to laugh， and welcome to the funniest movies of 2017。 Please keep in mind that many of these movies are not technically “comedies。” In fact， some of them are dramas。 But all of the below have one thing in common： they inspired us to actually crack a smile。　　如果你非常需要一个欢笑的理由，欢迎观看2017年最搞笑的电影。请记住，确切地说，这其中的许多部电影都不是“喜剧片”。实际上，有几部电影是剧情片。不过，下列的所有电影都有一个共同点，那就是它们真的会让我们露出笑容。　　　　　　Thor： Ragnarok was so much funnier than you could ever expect it to be， and it‘s all thanks to the genius of Jeff Goldbloom combined with the genius of Taika Waititi—the latter of whom both directed the movie AND played a extremely earnest dude made out of rocks。　　《雷神3：诸神黄昏》比你预期的要搞笑地多，这都要感谢杰夫·戈德布卢姆与塔伊加·维迪提两位天才的合作。塔伊加·维迪提不仅执导了这部电影，他还在影片中饰演了一个极其真诚的岩石男。　　　　　　This Noah Baumbach film is both funny and award-worthy， which means you can feel really smart while you chuckle。　　由诺亚·鲍姆巴赫执导的这部电影既搞笑又具得奖价值，这意味着在你窃笑的时候，你真的会觉得这部电影太高明了。　　　　　　Honestly if you want to laugh your way through a Netflix original movie， please just watch The Incredible Jessica James because it‘s a delightful romantic comedy。　　老实说，如果你想在观看一部由奈飞出品的原创影片时可以一直笑个不停的话，那请你就去看一下《不可思议的杰西卡·詹姆斯》，因为这是一部令人愉快的浪漫喜剧片。　　　　　　Baby Driver is so much fun， although it‘s not necessarily non-stop LOLs。 And speaking of Baby Driver， please head over this way for our exclusive interview with director Edgar Wright， who broke down the movie’s easter eggs。　　《极盗车神》特别有趣，虽然它未必会使你一直大笑。说到这部影片，请去看看我们对埃德加·怀特导演进行的独家采访，他打破了这部电影的复活节彩蛋（也就是说，关于这部电影，他为大家带来了惊喜）。　　　　　　If you like your comedy with a side of heart-warming feels and poignant cultural commentary， please look no further than The Big Sick， about a comedian who falls in love with a heckler。 Their backgrounds could not be more different， which is relatable to anyone in a mixed race relationship。　　如果你喜欢会让你有暖心之感，同时还有对文化的尖锐评论的喜剧片，没有比《大病》更合适的影片了。这部影片讲述了一个喜剧演员爱上了一个诘问者的故事。他们的背景截然不同，这部影片会让所有身处跨种族恋爱之人产生共鸣。　　　　　　One of the things that makes Guardians such a great superhero franchise is its sense of humor—which is full of self-deprecation and sarcasm 。 It‘s not like you’re going to watch this movie and laugh your way through it， but you‘ll at least have some moments of “ha ha ha”。　　《银河护卫队》会成为这么棒的超级英雄影片的因素之一就是它的幽默感，这部影片充满了自嘲和挖苦。你看这部影片的时候不会一直笑个不停，但至少会有一些瞬间会让你哈哈大笑。　　　　　　Did you write The Lego Batman Movie off as kids-only？ Biggest mistake ever。 This movie is a witty feat of hilarity ， full of dry humor。 Basically， if you like Will Arnett in Arrested Development， you will like this。　　你觉得这部影片只适合孩子吗？那你就错了。这部影片讲述了一次充满了冷幽默的欢乐又机智的壮举。总的来说，如果你喜欢《发展受阻》里的威尔·阿奈特，那你也会喜欢这部电影。　　　　　　Look up “side-splitting humor” in the dictionary and you should probably come across the trailer for Girls Trip， which is the funniest movie of 2017， no contest。 Do not @ me， this is a fact。　　去字典里查一下“side-splitting humor”（令人捧腹大笑的幽默感）这个词，你可能无意中看过《嗨翻姐妹行》的预告片，这是2017年最搞笑的电影，没有争议。不要@我，这是事实。　　　　　　The Beguiled wasn‘t exactly advertised as a comedy， but it contains moments of humor that had audience went to laughing out loud。 See： The dinner scene where Nicole Kidman and her crew try to impress Colin Farrell， or all the footage of him doing yard work。　　《牡丹花下》并没有被宣传为一部喜剧片，但它也有让屏幕前的观众哈哈大笑的幽默瞬间。你可以去看一下妮可·基德曼和她的学生们在晚餐时试图给科林·法瑞尔留下好印象的场景，以及科林·法瑞尔在院子里干活的镜头。　　　　　　The only family comedy/drama you need to see this year。 Also， head this way for MarieClaire.com‘s profile with Jenny Slate。　　这是今年唯一一部你需要看一下的家庭喜剧/剧情片。同样的，你也可以去看一下《嘉人Marie Claire》对詹妮·斯莱特的采访。　　　　　　Okay， so for the most part Get Out was just straight terrifying， but part of what made the film so successful was the balance between humor and terror。 Not many movies can make you laugh and scream in the span of three minutes， but this one can。　　好吧，《逃出绝命镇》这部影片的大部分内容都是吓人的，但使这部影片这么成功的部分原因就是其幽默和恐怖之间的平衡。没有几部电影能使你在三分钟之内大笑又尖叫，但这部影片做到了。　　　　　　The new Spider-Man reboot is the best yet， and it‘s mostly because the movie is funny。 Like， Breakfast Club meets Ferris Bueller’s Day Off meets Freaks and Geeks funny。　　新版的《蜘蛛侠》是迄今为止最棒的一部，这主要是因为它很搞笑。就像《早餐俱乐部》、《春天不是读书天》以及《怪胎与书呆》的结合体一样有趣。　　　　　　“Fifty Shades Darker is not a comedy，” you say。 Fine， so explain to me why I laughed the entire way through it。　　你说，“《五十度黑》不是一部喜剧片”。不错，那你解释一下，为什么我一直笑个不停。　　来源：沪江英语　　责任编辑：陈熙