　　　　The goal of early calculating machines was to simplify difficult sums。 But with the help of new technology， electronic chips replaced tubes and a revolution of artificial intelligence has arisen。 From then on， the appearance of computers totally changed our lives。 They can not only download information from the wet when connected by the network or mobile phone signals， but also solve different types of logical problems。 With operators as their coaches， they can even control rockets to explore the moon and instruct androids with the human race?s characters to mop floors and watch over your naughty niece。 Anyhow， computers are so helpful that they do bring happiness。　　However， computers are easily attacked by viruses。 This reality has become a hard-to-deal with-problem。 As a result， computers are dangerous in a way。 So， personally， I worry about their universal applications in some fields， such as finance。　　电脑　　早期计算机器的目的是简化比较难的计算。但是在新技术的帮助下，电子芯片代替了电子管，一场人工智能革命由此掀起。从那时起，电脑的出现完全改变了我们的生活，它们不仅能在网络或移动电话信号的连接下从网上下载信息，而且可以解决各种类型的逻辑问题。在操作员的教练下，它们甚至还可以控制火箭探索月球，指导具有人类性格的机器人擦洗地板和照顾你调皮的侄女。不管怎么说，电脑都是如此的有用，以致的确给人们带来了快乐。　　然而，电脑很容易受到病毒的攻击，这一现实已经成为一个难以处理的难题，结果，电脑在某种程度上是很危险的。因此，就个人而言，我很担心电脑在某些领域，例如金融方面的广泛应用。　　　　Dinosaurs died out because of an unexpected incident。 But wildlife today disappears or is in danger just because humans do harm to it。 For example， tigers are hunted for fur to make carpets so that they can only live in secure reserves； grassland is destroyed without mercy so that dust storms come into being affecting distant cities。　　Last year， scientists saw some monkeys rubbing themselves with a certain kind of insects to protect themselves from fierce mosquitoes biting。 According to the result of the inspection， they found that the insect contains a powerful drug， so local farmers were employed to catch the insects。 The ending was that the insects disappeared from the whole zone。 When told that it was a loss to humans， the farmers burst into laughter and responded， ?Our real loss is our decreasing income。?　　We should appreciate the natural balance and pay more attention to the importance of wildlife protection。 Not until we succeed in letting wildlife live in peace， can we smile in relief。　　保护野生动植物　　恐龙因一次意外事件而灭绝，但是今天的野生动植物却是因为人类的伤害而消失或处在危险中。例如，老虎被猎杀以获取做地毯的皮毛，以致它们只能生活在安全的保护区里；草地被毫不怜悯地破坏，以致沙尘暴开始影响遥远的城市。　　去年，科学家观察到猴子在身上擦某种昆虫来保护自己不受凶猛的蚊子的叮咬。根据检查的结果，他们发现这种昆虫含有一种具有强大效力的药物，于是，当地的农民都被雇来抓虫子。结果是，这种昆虫从这整个地区都消失了。当被告知说这是整个人类的损失时，农民们都突然大笑着回应道：“我们减少的收入才是我们真正的损失呢！”　　我们应该意识到自然平衡的重要，更加注意野生动植物的保护。直到我们成功让野生动植物安详平静地生活，我们自己才能如释重负地笑开颜。　　　　I was very sensitive to music。 Just dipping into the music books briefly， I could sing or play well。 To be honest， I always dreamt of becoming a famous folk actor。 I was so confident that I never decreased my devotion。　　I formed my first band called ?Rolling Frog?。 At the beginning， we relied on performing on instruments in pubs or to passers ?by to earn extra money in cash。 Then we wore false beards to pretend to be the musicians whom people were familiar with。 In addition， we attached humorous acts to our performances and played jokes on each other。 Soon， our ?funny jazz? became famous and invitations to perform for broadcast stations began to come。 Afterwards， we sorted out attractive music and made a record in a studio。 A million or so copies were sold and we became millionaires。　　It was painful that the band broke up finally。 But above all， I realized my dream to be a musician。　　我的第一支乐队　　我对音乐很敏感，只要简要地浏览一下乐谱，我就能演唱或演奏得很好。说实话，我一直都梦想着能成为出名的民间演员，自信的我从未减少过热爱。　　我组成的第一支乐队叫做“摇滚蛙”。开始，我们依靠在酒吧里或向路人表演乐器来挣些零花的现金。然后我们带上假胡子假扮人们熟悉的音乐家，除此之外，我们在表演中加上幽默的动作，互相开着玩笑。很快，我们的“滑稽爵士乐”出了名，到广播电台表演的邀请开始多起来。随后，我们把我们吸引人的音乐做了分类，在一间音乐工作室录制了1张唱片，大约卖出了100万张，这使我们都成了百万富翁。　　乐队最终的解散让我很心痛，但最重要的是，我实现了自己当音乐家的梦想。　　来源：口袋英语精选的微信公众账号