　　What is the saddest thing you have heard a child say？　　你听孩子说过的最令人难过的事是什么？　　获得14.8k好评的答案@Charlotte Neumann　　I have a neighbor。 He shouts at his kids a lot。 He has a close friend with a little girl， Mindy。 Does this guy also shout at his kids a lot？ I don‘t know。。。　　我有个邻居，他经常大声骂孩子。他的一个好朋友有个小女儿，叫明迪，但是我不知道那个人是否也经常大声骂孩子……　　The other day， my neighbor‘s son Marco， 6， and Mindy， also 6， rang my door bell。 “Marco threw his monster ball on your balcony。 We want to get it - if you won’t be angry？”　　有一天，我邻居6岁的儿子马尔科，和同样6岁的明迪按响了我的门铃。“马尔科把他的怪兽球扔到你家阳台了，我们想拿回它——你不会生气吧？”　　Me： Of course I won‘t be angry。 Come in。　　我：当然不会生气。请进吧。　　Mindy： Are you really not angry？　　明迪：你真的没有生气？　　Me： No。　　我：真的不会。　　Mindy： When are you angry？　　明迪：那你什么时候生气呀？　　Me： I‘m never angry with kids。　　我：我从不跟孩子生气。　　Mindy： Really？　　明迪：真的吗？　　Me： Yes。　　我：真的。　　Mindy： Never？　　明迪：从来没有？　　Me： Never。　　我：从来没有。　　Mindy： Not even if we do something wrong？　　明迪：即使我们做错了也不生气？　　Me： No。 I‘d probably tell you it was wrong， but I wouldn’t be angry。　　我：不生气。我可能会告诉你那是错的，但是我不会生气。　　Mindy looked at me， then repeated： “You won‘t be angry with me？”　　明迪看着我，然后又说了一遍：“你真的不会跟我们生气？”　　Me： I will never be angry with you。　　我：我永远也不会跟你们生气。　　She looked at me again， for a few seconds， then flung herself into my arms。　　她又看了我几秒钟，然后飞扑进我的怀里。　　I didn‘t even know her， before this。 There’s no saying exactly what the background is， but I found it sad。　　在此之前我从未了解过她。我说不准她的家庭背景到底是什么样的，但是我觉得这件事让人很难过。　　获得9.9k好评的答案@Aaron Hammett　　In recent news， a man had entered into an electrified swimming pool to save his daughter and subsequently died from electrocution。 His daughter survived。　　最近有个新闻，有个男人进到一个通了电的游泳池去救他的女儿，随后他就触电死亡，但是他的女儿活下来了。　　My 5 year old son looked wide-eyed as I read the report to my wife。 Silence overtook the room for a moment and then in a still， small voice he said， “Daddy， would you die for me？”　　当我给妻子念这条新闻的时候，我5岁的儿子睁大眼睛看着我。一时间屋里一片寂静，过了一会儿，他小声说道：“爸爸，你会为我而死吗？”　　“Yes， of course。”　　“当然会。”　　Tears welled up in his baby brown eyes。 “I would die for you， too。”　　他如婴儿般的棕色眼睛里涌出了泪水。“我也会为你而死的。”　　Needless to say， I swept him into my arms and broke down。　　无需多言，我把他拥进怀里，失声痛哭。　　获得1.2k好评的答案@Cheryl Lightfoot　　I was out all day， and didn‘t check in with my son， thinking at his age （17） he wouldn’t care what I was doing。 I was wrong。 He somehow got it into his head that I might have had an accident。 And worse， since his father died， I am his only parent。 He said to me later， in a tone that showed exactly how scared and hurt he was， that I had frightened him into thinking he now had no parents and was all alone in the world。 Needless to say， I felt horrible and have vowed to check in if I am ever out later than expected。　　我 在外面呆了一整天，也没和我儿子报备一下，我觉得他已经17岁了，也不在乎我在做什么。然而我错了。他莫名其妙地觉得我可能出事了。更糟糕的是，自从他爸 爸去世后，我是他唯一的家长了。他随后对我说，我吓得他觉得他现在没有父母了、孤身一人活在世上，语气十分惊慌，很是受伤的样子。毋庸置疑，我觉得这很可 怕，并且发誓如果我比预想中要晚回家的话一定会向他报备。　　来源 沪江英语