　　对于找工作、找实习的同学来说，考虑面试时穿什么或许很让人头疼。过于休闲舒适或高调时髦的打扮都不太合适，如果你希望给面试官留下好印象，那么切记在穿着打扮上一定要避开以下六个雷区。　　Even if you're going for a job in fashion, it's best not to turn up in the latest Stella McCartney dress and a bright pink crocodile Hermes Birkin fresh from Net-a-Porter.　　即便你应聘的是时尚行业的工作，最好也不要穿着从Net-a-Porter网站购买的Stella McCartney最新款礼服，背着亮粉色的爱马仕鳄鱼皮铂金包。　　You don't want to appear too try-hard or flashy. Besides which, your interviewer may have a very different opinion of a designer than you do. I'm no fan of Moschino for example, but I adore Ralph Lauren.　　你也不想看起来用力过猛或者过于浮夸吧。此外，面试官可能和你的时尚品味完全不同。比如，我不喜欢Moschino，但我爱拉尔夫•劳伦。　　　　Color has a big psychological impact on people, and that's brought into sharp focus in job interviews.　　颜色对人的心理有很大影响，因此，在求职面试中颜色是非常惹眼的。　　Studies have shown that wearing brown clothes gives the idea that you're old-fashioned and passive, and you won't be a forward-thinking, dynamic employee, whereas red has been shown to convey that you're too assertive or even rebellious.　　研究表明，穿棕色衣服会给人一种守旧、消极的印象，让人认为你不是一个思维敏捷、富有干劲的员工。而红色传递的信息则是你过于自信，甚至是叛逆。　　It's too powerful and people – women in particular – often feel threatened by other women who wear red.　　红色的气场太强大了，穿红色衣服的人，尤其是女性，往往会让其他女性感受到威胁。　　Orange meanwhile has been found to be the worst color to wear, as hiring managers feel it's unprofessional.　　此外，橙色也被视为一种最糟糕的选择，因为它会让招聘经理觉得你不专业。　　However, navy blue is often the best choice, as it inspires confidence. It's also less imposing than black, and gives the message that you're a friendly person.　　而藏蓝色通常是最佳选择，因为它能激发自信，也不会像黑色那么强势，而且让人觉得你很友好。　　　　Research undertaken by St Andrews University suggests that the majority of employers feel tattoos are taboo and that 'ultimately, it does not matter what they think of tattoos. What really matters, instead, is how customers might perceive employees with visible tattoos.'　　圣安德鲁斯大学的研究表明，大多数雇主认为纹身是禁忌，“这和他们对纹身的看法无关，真正重要的是顾客如何看待有明显纹身的员工。”　　　　Just keep to a plain and simple manicure. This summer's trend for ladylike neutrals in rose pink is one current fashion that's acceptable.　　美甲的款式要简单干净。今夏流行的淑女中性色玫瑰粉是可以接受的时髦美甲。　　Definitely don't go in with chipped varnish. It sends a message that you're sloppy when it comes to the details and possibly that your time-keeping skills are going to be terrible if you couldn't even find the time to do your nails beforehand.　　绝对不要戴着掉漆的美甲去面试。这暗示着你在细节方面很粗心，而且你的时间管理能力可能也很差，因为你甚至无法提前安排好做指甲的时间。　　　　If you can walk easily in high heels and they're going to make you feel good, then go for it – feeling confident is vital for job interview success.　　如果你穿高跟鞋走路如履平地，而且喜欢穿的话那就穿吧——自信是面试成功的关键。　　But if you can't comfortably walk in them, you're going to give totally the wrong impression when you wobble into the room. It's far better to wear smart flats.　　但是如果穿高跟鞋走路让你不舒服，那么当你摇摇晃晃走进去的时候，留下的完全都是坏印象。穿时髦的平底鞋要好得多。　　　　Again, avoid anything potentially distracting. Keep jewelry to a minimum – maybe a single statement necklace with stud earrings.　　再强调一下，不要穿戴任何可能引起注意的东西。尽量精简首饰，或许可以选择一条别致的项链搭配耳钉。　　Remove any alternative piercings that aren't in your ears.　　不要戴任何穿刺饰品，耳朵上也不要。　　英文来源：每日邮报　　翻译&编辑：董静　　审校：yaning