　　你写过情书吗？一张信纸，几句情话，传递着爱恋的欢喜和悸动。我们来读几篇名人情书，感受下那最古典的浪漫。　　拿破仑　　I loved you some time ago; since then I feel that I love you a thousand times better. Ah, let me see some of your faults; be less beautiful, less graceful, less tender, less good. But never be jealous and never shed tears. Your tears send me out of my mind and they set my very blood on fire.　　我不久前爱上你，自那以后，我对你的爱更增千倍。哎，真希望看到你的美中不足。再少几分甜美，少几分优雅，少几分妩媚，少几分姣好吧。但绝不要嫉妒，不要流泪。你的眼泪使我神魂颠倒，也使我热血沸腾。　　Mark Twain　　马克.吐温　　I do love you, Livy...as the dew loves the flowers; as the birds love the sunshine; as the wavelets love the breeze; as mothers love their first-born; as memory loves old faces; as the yearning tides love the moon; as the angels love the pure in heart... Take my kiss and my benediction, and try to be reconciled to the fact that I am.　　我真的爱你，莉薇……就像露珠爱鲜花，鸟儿爱阳光，微波爱轻风，母亲爱她们的第一个孩子，我爱你，就像记忆青睐昔日熟悉的面孔，思念的潮水迷恋月亮，天使珍爱纯洁的心灵……请接受我的亲吻和我的祝福，要接受这个事实：我爱你。　　Ronald Reagan　　罗纳德.里根　　Dear First Lady, this is the day, the day that marks 31 years of such happiness as comes to few men. I told you once that it was like an adolescent’s dream of what marriage should be like. That hasn’t changed. I more than love you, I’m not whole without you. You are life itself to me. Happy Anniversary & thank you for 31 wonderful years.　　亲爱的第一夫人，到今天为止，我们共同度过了31年的幸福时光，这是世上少数男人才享有的荣幸。我曾告诉过你，我的婚姻就像一个青少年对婚姻所怀的梦想那样美好，一直以来都是如此。你是我的至爱，没有你，我是不完整的。你就是我的生命本身。结婚纪念日快乐，感谢你31年来的美好陪伴！　　Charlotte Bront?　　夏洛蒂.勃朗特　　Monsieur, the poor do not need a great deal to live on - they ask only the crumbs of bread which fall from the rich men’s table - but if they are refused these crumbs - they die of hunger - No more do I need a great deal of affection from those I love - I would not know what to do with a whole and complete friendship - I am not accustomed to it - but you showed a little interest in me in days gone by when I was your pupil in Brussels - and I cling to the preservation of this little interest - I cling to it as I would cling on to life.　　先生，穷人不需要太多来活命，他们只祈求富人餐桌上掉落的一点面包屑，但如果他们连这点面包屑都被拒绝给予，他们就会饿死。我渴望从我爱之人那里获得的感情也不过如此。一段完整而完满的友情会让我不知所措，我并不习惯于拥有它，但是，如果您对我能表现出哪怕一点点关爱，就像在布鲁塞尔我还是您的学生时那样，我就会紧紧抓住这一点点的关爱，我依附于此，就像我依附于生命。　　Albert Einstein　　爱因斯坦　　My dearest Margarita, I haven’t received your letter. I have thought agonizingly how can we solve this intractable problem. People said that I am very smart, but I’m helpless with it. Just recently I washed my head by myself, but not with the greatest success; I am not as careful as you are, but everything here reminds me of you. Men are living now just the way they were before, as if we didn’t have a new, all-overshadowing danger to deal with. Be greeted and kissed, if this letter reaches you, and the devil take anyone who intercepts it.　　我最亲爱的玛加丽达: 我收不到你的来信，我苦苦思索如何才能解决这个棘手的问题。人们都说我聪明无比，可我对此事却束手无策。最近我自己洗了一次头发，不是很成功；我没有你那么细心，这里的一切都让我想起你。人们还是像以前一样生活，好像那个新的、笼罩在我们上空的危险阴影不存在一样。如果这封信能抵达你那儿，愿它问候你、亲吻你。愿恶魔带走拦截我们通信的人。　　George Bernard Shaw　　萧伯纳　　The weather has frowned; but Fortune has smiled. Ten splendid things have happened:　　天气不好，可是命运之神却向我微笑。我遇到了十桩得意的事情：　　1. a letter from Ellen Terry.　　一、收到爱兰.黛丽一封信；　　2. a check for my Chicago royalties from Arms and the Man.　　二、接到从芝加哥寄来的一张《武器和武士》版税汇票；　　3. a letter from Ellen Terry.　　三、收到爱兰.黛丽一封信；　　4. the rolling away of the clouds from the difficult 2nd act of my new play, leaving the view clear and triumphant right on to the curtain.　　四、我已经在我的新剧本的第二幕里，打破难关，拨开云雾见青天了；　　5. a letter from Ellen Terry.　　五、收到爱兰.黛丽一封信；　　6. a beautiful sunset bicycle ride over the hills and far away, thinking of Ellen Terry.　　六、看见美丽的落日，在遥远的山边坠下，心里想念着爱兰.黛丽；　　7. a letter from Ellen Terry.　　七、收到爱兰.黛丽一封信；　　8. a letter from Ellen Terry.　　八、收到爱兰.黛丽一封信；　　9. a letter from Ellen Terry.　　九、收到爱兰.黛丽一封信；　　10. a letter from Ellen Ellen Ellen Ellen Ellen Ellen Ellen Ellen Ellen Eleanor Ellenest Terry.　　十、收到爱兰、爱兰、爱兰、爱兰、爱兰、爱兰、爱兰、爱兰、爱兰、爱兰兰、爱兰兰兰.黛丽一封信。　　John Keats　　约翰.济慈　　I cannot exist without you - I am forgetful of every thing but seeing you again - my life seems to stop there - I see no further. You have absorb’d me.　　没有你我无法存活。我忘却了一切，只想着要与你再见。我的生命似乎就此终止，没有更远的未来。你占据了我的一切。　　I have a sensation at the present moment as though I were dissolving ….I have been astonished that men could die martyrs for religion - I have shudder’d at it - I shudder no more - I could be martyr’d for my religion - love is my religion - I could die for that - I could die for you. My creed is love and you are its only tenet - you have ravish’d me away by a power I cannot resist.　　我有一种感觉，就在这一刻我似乎正在消融……我曾惊讶于有人会为宗教而牺牲，我曾一想到这就战栗不已。现在我不再为此战栗了。我也可以为我的宗教牺牲。爱就是我的宗教，我可以为它而死，我可以为你而死。我的信经就是爱，而你就是它唯一的信条。你用我无法抵抗的力量将我彻底摧毁。