　　日前，词典网站Dictionary.com发布了2017年度词汇：同谋（complicit）。为什么人们都想查“同谋”这个词？“同谋”的含义是什么？“同谋”又影射了哪些大事件呢？　　Russian election influence, the ever-widening sexual harassment scandal, mass shootings and the opioid epidemic helped elevate the word “complicit” as the Dictionary.com word of the year for 2017.　　俄罗斯对美国大选的影响、性骚扰丑闻的持续扩大、大规模枪击事件、鸦片类药物滥用让“complicit（同谋）”一词成为了词典网站Dictionary.com的2017年度词汇。　　Look-ups of the word increased nearly 300% over the last year, lexicographer Jane Solomon said.　　词典编纂人简•所罗门说，“同谋”的查询量增加了近300%。　　“This year a conversation that keeps on surfacing is what exactly it means to be complicit,” she said. “Complicit has sprung up in conversations about those who speak out against powerful figures in institutions, and those who stay silent.”　　“今年不断有人谈论，complicit这个词的真正含义是什么，”所罗门说，“那些站出来抗议机构大人物的人，那些保持沉默的人，他们的谈话中都会出现complicit这个词。”　　The first of three major spikes for the word struck on March 12, the day after  aired a sketch starring Scarlett Johansson as Ivanka Trump in a glittery gold dress peddling a fragrance called “Complicit” because: “She’s beautiful, she’s powerful, she’s complicit.”　　“同谋”一词有三个查询高峰，第一次是在3月12日，在前一天播出的《周末夜现场》中播放了斯嘉丽•约翰逊表演的一个小品。约翰逊饰演的伊凡卡•特朗普穿着一身金光闪闪的裙子给一款“同谋”牌香水做广告：“她很美，她很强大，她是同谋。”　　The bump was followed by another on April 5 also related to Ivanka, Solomon said. It was the day after she appeared on  and told Gayle King, among other things: “I don’t know what it means to be complicit.” It was unclear if Ivanka was deflecting or whether the economics graduate of the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business really didn’t know.　　所罗门说，第二个查询高峰是在4月5日，也和伊万卡有关。前一天伊万卡在《CBS今晨》节目中告诉主持人金恩说：“我不知道complicit是什么意思。”至于伊凡卡是在回避抑或是她真的不知道就不得而知了。伊万卡可是宾夕法尼亚大学沃顿商学院经济学专业的毕业生。　　Another major spike occurred on October 24, the day the Arizona Republican Jeff Flake announced from the Senate floor that he would not seek re-election, harshly criticized Donald Trump and urged other members of the party not to stand silently with the president.　　第三个查询高峰出现在10月24日，亚利桑那州的共和党人杰夫•弗莱克当日在参议院宣布他不会再竞选参议员，同时他严厉地批评了特朗普总统，并恳求其他共和党人不要选择沉默地跟随特朗普。　　“I have children and grandchildren to answer to, and so, Mr President, I will not be complicit,” Flake said.　　弗莱克说：“我还要面对我的孩子和孙子，所以，总统先生，我不会当你的同谋。”　　Solomon said several other major events had contributed to interest in the word. They include the rise of the opioid epidemic and how it came to pass, along with the spread of sexual harassment and assault allegations against an ever-growing list of powerful men, including the film mogul Harvey Weinstein.　　所罗门说，还有其他几件大事都增加了人们对“同谋”一词的关注度，包括鸦片类药物滥用的增多及其背后原因，电影大亨哈维•温斯坦性骚扰丑闻的持续扩大，被指控性骚扰和性侵的大人物不断增加。　　The scandal that started in Hollywood and quickly spread across industries has led to a mountain of questions over who knew what, who might have contributed and what it means to stay silent.　　这一丑闻从好莱坞开始，迅速波及其他行业，引发出一连串问题：谁知道什么真相，谁能提供更多内情，保持沉默意味着什么。　　那么complicit的意思是什么呢？来看看Dictionary.com的解释：　　involved with others in reprehensible or illegal activity　　和他人一起参与到应受谴责或非法的活动中　　例句：　　But my silence was not only wrong; I am complicit on some level in nurturing the “rape culture” that we see today in our country.　　但是，我的沉默不光是错误的；在某种程度上我是助长我们国家现在这种“强奸文化”的同谋。　　—— Dean Obeidallah November 26, 2014　　《比尔•考斯比的支持者们都有什么共同特征？》，迪恩·欧贝达拉，2014年11月26日　　While Solomon shared percentage increases for “complicit”, the company would not disclose the number of look-ups, calling that data proprietary. Dictionary.com chooses its word of the year by scouring look-ups by day, month and year to date and how they correspond to noteworthy events, Solomon said. This year, a lot of high-volume trends unsurprisingly corresponded to politics.　　虽然所罗门分享了“同谋”的查询增长率，但该公司不愿透露查询量，称这一数据是内部资料。所罗门说，Dictionary.com网站通过比较日、月和年查询量，以及这些词汇和重大事件的关联度选出年度词汇。不出所料，今年很多热门查询词都和政治有关。　　来看看其中几个热门查询词：　　Intersex 阴阳人　　Intersex, which trended in January thanks to the model Hanne Gaby Odiele speaking up to break taboos. As a noun it means “an individual having reproductive organs or external sexual characteristics of both male and female”. Dictionary.com traces its origins back to 1915, as the back formation of “intersexual”.　　“阴阳人”在一月份达到查询高峰，这要归功于模特汉妮•盖比•奥迪尔勇敢发声冲破禁忌。作为名词“阴阳人”的意思是“同时拥有男性和女性生殖器官或呈现出男性和女性外部特征的人”。Dictionary.com称该词的起源要追溯到1915年，是intersexual（雌雄同体的）的逆构词。　　Horologist 钟表师　　Horologist, as in master clockmaker, such as the one featured in the podcast . All seven episodes were released at once in March.　　“钟表师”一词出现在播客《狗屎镇》中，一共7集都在三月份播出。　　Totality 全食　　Totality saw look-up spikes in August, due to the solar eclipse and the narrow strip of land where the sun was completely obscured by the moon.　　“全食”一词在八月份出现了查询高峰，因为八月份有日全食景观，而且这次日全食完全在美国境内掠过。　　英文来源：卫报　　翻译&编辑：丹妮