　　中国共产党第十九次全国代表大会开幕会于2017年10月18日上午9:00在人民大会堂大礼堂举行。　　习近平总书记代表十八届中央委员会向大会作了题为的报告。　　习近平指出，中国共产党第十九次全国代表大会，是在全面建成小康社会决胜阶段、中国特色社会主义进入新时代的关键时期召开的一次十分重要的大会。　　　　　　习近平代表第十八届中央委员会向大会作的报告分13个部分：　　一、过去五年的工作和历史性变革；　　二、新时代中国共产党的历史使命；　　三、新时代中国特色社会主义思想和基本方略；　　四、决胜全面建成小康社会，开启全面建设社会主义现代化国家新征程；　　五、贯彻新发展理念，建设现代化经济体系；　　六、健全人民当家作主制度体系，发展社会主义民主政治；　　七、坚定文化自信，推动社会主义文化繁荣兴盛；　　八、提高保障和改善民生水平，加强和创新社会治理；　　九、加快生态文明体制改革，建设美丽中国；　　十、坚持走中国特色强军之路，全面推进国防和军队现代化；　　十一、坚持“一国两制”，推进祖国统一；　　十二、坚持和平发展道路，推动构建人类命运共同体；　　十三、坚定不移全面从严治党，不断提高党的执政能力和领导水平。　　　　　　经过长期努力，中国特色社会主义进入了新时代，这是我国发展新的历史方位。　　With decades of hard work, socialism with Chinese characteristics has crossed the threshold into a new era. This is a new historic juncture in China's development.　　这个新时代，是承前启后、继往开来、在新的历史条件下继续夺取中国特色社会主义伟大胜利的时代，　　This new era will be an era of building on past successes to further advance our cause, and of continuing in a new historical context to strive for the success of socialism with Chinese characteristics.　　是决胜全面建成小康社会、进而全面建设社会主义现代化强国的时代，　　It will be an era of securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and of moving on to all-out efforts to build a great modern socialist country.　　是全国各族人民团结奋斗、不断创造美好生活、逐步实现全体人民共同富裕的时代，　　It will be an era for the Chinese people of all ethnic groups to work together and work hard to create a better life for themselves and ultimately achieve common prosperity for everyone.　　是全体中华儿女勠力同心、奋力实现中华民族伟大复兴中国梦的时代，　　It will be an era for all of us, the sons and daughters of the Chinese nation, to strive with one heart to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation.　　是我国日益走近世界舞台中央、不断为人类作出更大贡献的时代。　　It will be an era that sees China moving closer to center stage and making greater contributions to mankind.　　　　新时代中国特色社会主义思想明确了以下几点内容：　　The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era makes certain things clear:　　新时代中国特色社会主义思想明确坚持和发展中国特色社会主义，总任务是实现社会主义现代化和中华民族伟大复兴，在全面建成小康社会的基础上，分两步走在本世纪中叶建成富强民主文明和谐美丽的社会主义现代化强国；　　It makes clear that the overarching goal of upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics is to realize socialist modernization and national rejuvenation, and, on the basis of finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects, a two-step approach should be taken to build China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful by the middle of the century.　　明确新时代我国社会主要矛盾是人民日益增长的美好生活需要和不平衡不充分的发展之间的矛盾，必须坚持以人民为中心的发展思想，不断促进人的全面发展、全体人民共同富裕；　　It makes clear that the principal contradiction facing Chinese society in the new era is that between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people's ever-growing needs for a better life. We must therefore continue commitment to our people-centered philosophy of development, and work to promote well-rounded human development and common prosperity for everyone.　　明确中国特色社会主义事业总体布局是“五位一体”、战略布局是“四个全面”，强调坚定道路自信、理论自信、制度自信、文化自信；　　It makes clear that the overall plan for building socialism with Chinese characteristics is the five-sphere integrated plan, and the overall strategy is the four-pronged comprehensive strategy. It highlights the importance of fostering stronger confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics.　　明确全面深化改革总目标是完善和发展中国特色社会主义制度、推进国家治理体系和治理能力现代化；　　It makes clear that the overall goal of deepening reform in every field is to improve and develop the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and modernize China's system and capacity for governance.　　明确全面推进依法治国总目标是建设中国特色社会主义法治体系、建设社会主义法治国家；　　It makes clear that the overall goal of comprehensively advancing law-based governance is to establish a system of socialist rule of law with Chinese characteristics and build a country of socialist rule of law.　　明确党在新时代的强军目标是建设一支听党指挥、能打胜仗、作风优良的人民军队，把人民军队建设成为世界一流军队；　　It makes clear that the Party's goal of building a strong military in the new era is to build the people's forces into world-class forces that obey the Party's command, can fight and win, and maintain excellent conduct.　　明确中国特色大国外交要推动构建新型国际关系，推动构建人类命运共同体；　　It makes clear that major country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics aims to foster a new type of international relations and build a community with a shared future for mankind.　　明确中国特色社会主义最本质的特征是中国共产党领导，中国特色社会主义制度的最大优势是中国共产党领导，党是最高政治领导力量，提出新时代党的建设总要求，突出政治建设在党的建设中的重要地位。　　It makes clear that the defining feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the leadership of the Communist Party of China; the greatest strength of the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the leadership of the Communist Party of China; the Party is the highest force for political leadership. The Thought sets forth the general requirements for Party building in the new era and underlines the importance of political work in Party building.　　新时代中国特色社会主义思想，是对马克思列宁主义、毛泽东思想、邓小平理论、“三个代表”重要思想、科学发展观的继承和发展，　　The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era builds on and further enriches Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, the Theory of Three Represents, and the Scientific Outlook on Development.　　是马克思主义中国化最新成果，是党和人民实践经验和集体智慧的结晶，　　It represents the latest achievement in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context, and encapsulates the practical experience and collective wisdom of our Party and the people.　　是中国特色社会主义理论体系的重要组成部分，是全党全国人民为实现中华民族伟大复兴而奋斗的行动指南，必须长期坚持并不断发展。　　It is an important component of the system of theories of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and a guide to action for all our members and all the Chinese people as we strive to achieve national rejuvenation. This Thought must be adhered to and steadily developed on a long-term basis.　　　　中国特色社会主义进入新时代，我国社会主要矛盾已经转化为人民日益增长的美好生活需要和不平衡不充分的发展之间的矛盾。　　As socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era, the principal contradiction facing Chinese society has evolved. What we now face is the contradiction between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people's ever-growing needs for a better life.　　必须认识到，我国社会主要矛盾的变化是关系全局的历史性变化，对党和国家工作提出了许多新要求。　　We must recognize that the evolution of the principal contradiction facing Chinese society represents a historic shift that affects the whole landscape and that creates many new demands for the work of the Party and the country.　　必须认识到，我国社会主要矛盾的变化，没有改变我们对我国社会主义所处历史阶段的判断，我国仍处于并将长期处于社会主义初级阶段的基本国情没有变，我国是世界最大发展中国家的国际地位没有变。　　We must recognize that the evolution of the principal contradiction facing Chinese society does not change our assessment of the present stage of socialism in China. The basic dimension of the Chinese context — that our country is still and will long remain in the primary stage of socialism — has not changed. China's international status as the world's largest developing country has not changed.　　　　综合分析国际国内形势和我国发展条件，从二〇二〇年到本世纪中叶可以分两个阶段来安排。　　Based on a comprehensive analysis of the international and domestic environments and the conditions for China's development, we have drawn up a two-stage development plan for the period from 2020 to the middle of this century.　　第一个阶段，从二〇二〇年到二〇三五年，在全面建成小康社会的基础上，再奋斗十五年，基本实现社会主义现代化。　　In the first stage from 2020 to 2035, we will build on the foundation created by the moderately prosperous society with a further 15 years of hard work to see that socialist modernization is basically realized.　　第二个阶段，从二〇三五年到本世纪中叶，在基本实现现代化的基础上，再奋斗十五年，把我国建成富强民主文明和谐美丽的社会主义现代化强国。　　In the second stage from 2035 to the middle of the 21st century, we will, building on having basically achieved modernization, work hard for a further 15 years and develop China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful.　　　　　　十八大以来的五年，是党和国家发展进程中极不平凡的五年。　　The five years since the 18th National Congress have been a truly remarkable five years in the course of the development of the Party and the country.　　五年来，我们统筹推进“五位一体”总体布局、协调推进“四个全面”战略布局，“十二五”规划胜利完成，“十三五”规划顺利实施，党和国家事业全面开创新局面。　　In the past five years, we have implemented the five-sphere integrated plan and the four-pronged comprehensive strategy, fulfilled the goals of the 12th Five-Year Plan, and made smooth progress in implementing the 13th Five-Year Plan.　　五年来的成就是全方位的、开创性的，五年来的变革是深层次的、根本性的。　　The achievements of the past five years have touched every area and broken new ground, and the changes in China over the past five years have been profound and fundamental.　　五年来的成就，是党中央坚强领导的结果，更是全党全国各族人民共同奋斗的结果。　　The achievements of the past five years were attributed to the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee, and, more importantly, the result of all Party members and all the Chinese people pulling together in their pursuit.　　经过长期努力，中国特色社会主义进入了新时代，这是我国发展新的历史方位。　　With decades of hard work, socialism with Chinese characteristics has crossed the threshold into a new era. This is a new historic juncture in China's development.　　中国特色社会主义进入新时代， |　　This is what socialism with Chinese characteristics entering a new era means:　　意味着近代以来久经磨难的中华民族迎来了从站起来、富起来到强起来的伟大飞跃，迎来了实现中华民族伟大复兴的光明前景；　　The Chinese nation, which since modern times began has endured so much for so long, has achieved a tremendous transformation-it has stood up, grown rich, and become strong, and it now embraces the brilliant prospects of rejuvenation.　　意味着科学社会主义在二十一世纪的中国焕发出强大生机活力，在世界上高高举起了中国特色社会主义伟大旗帜；　　Scientific socialism is full of vitality in 21st century China, and the banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics is now flying high and proud for all to see.　　意味着中国特色社会主义道路、理论、制度、文化不断发展，拓展了发展中国家走向现代化的途径，给世界上那些既希望加快发展又希望保持自身独立性的国家和民族提供了全新选择，为解决人类问题贡献了中国智慧和中国方案。　　The path, the theory, the system, and the culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics have kept developing, blazing a new trail for other developing countries to achieve modernization. It offers a new option for other countries and nations who want to speed up their development while preserving their independence, and it offers Chinese wisdom and a Chinese approach to solving the problems facing mankind.　　这个新时代，是承前启后、继往开来、在新的历史条件下继续夺取中国特色社会主义伟大胜利的时代，　　This new era will be an era of building on past successes to further advance our cause, and of continuing in a new historical context to strive for the success of socialism with Chinese characteristics.　　是决胜全面建成小康社会、进而全面建设社会主义现代化强国的时代，　　It will be an era of securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all aspects and of moving on to all-out efforts to build a great modern socialist country.　　是全国各族人民团结奋斗、不断创造美好生活、逐步实现全体人民共同富裕的时代，　　It will be an era for the Chinese people of all ethnic groups to work together and work hard to create a better life for themselves and ultimately achieve common prosperity for everyone.　　是全体中华儿女勠力同心、奋力实现中华民族伟大复兴中国梦的时代，　　It will be an era for all of us, the sons and daughters of the Chinese nation, to strive with one heart to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation.　　是我国日益走近世界舞台中央、不断为人类作出更大贡献的时代。　　It will be an era that sees China moving closer to center stage and making greater contributions to mankind.　　中国特色社会主义进入新时代，我国社会主要矛盾已经转化为人民日益增长的美好生活需要和不平衡不充分的发展之间的矛盾。　　As socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era, the principal contradiction facing Chinese society has evolved. What we now face is the contradiction between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people's ever-growing needs for a better life.　　　　今天，我们比历史上任何时期都更接近、更有信心和能力实现中华民族伟大复兴的目标。　　Today, we are closer, more confident, and more capable than ever before of making the goal of national rejuvenation a reality.　　行百里者半九十。中华民族伟大复兴，绝不是轻轻松松、敲锣打鼓就能实现的。全党必须准备付出更为艰巨、更为艰苦的努力。　　As the Chinese saying goes, the last leg of a journey just marks the halfway point. Achieving national rejuvenation will be no walk in the park; it will take more than drum beating and gong clanging to get there. Every one of us in the Party must be prepared to work even harder toward this goal.　　实现伟大梦想，必须进行伟大斗争。社会是在矛盾运动中前进的，有矛盾就会有斗争。　　Realizing our great dream demands a great struggle. It is in the movement of contradictions that a society advances; where there is contradiction there is struggle.　　实现伟大梦想，必须建设伟大工程。这个伟大工程就是我们党正在深入推进的党的建设新的伟大工程。　　Realizing our great dream demands a great project. This project is the great new project of Party building that is just getting into full swing.　　全党要更加自觉地坚定党性原则，勇于直面问题，敢于刮骨疗毒，消除一切损害党的先进性和纯洁性的因素，清除一切侵蚀党的健康肌体的病毒。　　Every Party member must be more actively involved in enhancing Party consciousness, and demonstrate commitment to Party principles. We must have the courage to face problems squarely, be braced for the pain, act to remove whatever undermines the Party’s purity and advanced nature, and rid ourselves of any virus that erodes the Party’s health.　　不断增强党的政治领导力、思想引领力、群众组织力、社会号召力，确保我们党永葆旺盛生命力和强大战斗力。　　We must keep on strengthening the Party's ability to lead politically, to guide through theory, to organize the people, and to inspire society, thus ensuring that the Party's great vitality and strong ability are forever maintained.　　实现伟大梦想，必须推进伟大事业。中国特色社会主义是改革开放以来党的全部理论和实践的主题，是党和人民历尽千辛万苦、付出巨大代价取得的根本成就。　　Realizing our great dream demands a great cause. Socialism with Chinese characteristics has been the focus of all of the Party’s theories and practice since reform and opening up began. It is the fundamental achievement of our Party and our people made through countless hardships at enormous cost.　　全党要更加自觉地增强道路自信、理论自信、制度自信、文化自信，既不走封闭僵化的老路，也不走改旗易帜的邪路，保持政治定力，坚持实干兴邦，始终坚持和发展中国特色社会主义。　　Our whole Party must strengthen our confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics. We must neither retrace our steps to the rigidity and isolation of the past, nor take the wrong turn by changing our nature and abandoning our system. We must maintain our political orientation, do the good solid work that sees our country thrive, and continue to uphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics.　　　　新时代中国特色社会主义思想，明确坚持和发展中国特色社会主义，总任务是实现社会主义现代化和中华民族伟大复兴，在全面建成小康社会的基础上，分两步走在本世纪中叶建成富强民主文明和谐美丽的社会主义现代化强国；　　The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era makes clear that the overarching goal of upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics is to realize socialist modernization and national rejuvenation, and, that on the basis of finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects, a two-step approach should be taken to build China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful by the middle of the century.　　明确新时代我国社会主要矛盾是人民日益增长的美好生活需要和不平衡不充分的发展之间的矛盾，必须坚持以人民为中心的发展思想，不断促进人的全面发展、全体人民共同富裕；　　It makes clear that the principal contradiction facing Chinese society in the new era is that between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people’s ever-growing needs for a better life. We must therefore continue commitment to our people-centered philosophy of development, and work to promote well-rounded human development and common prosperity for everyone.　　明确中国特色社会主义事业总体布局是“五位一体”、战略布局是“四个全面”，强调坚定道路自信、理论自信、制度自信、文化自信；　　It makes clear that the overall plan for building socialism with Chinese characteristics is the five-sphere integrated plan, and the overall strategy is the four-pronged comprehensive strategy. It highlights the importance of fostering stronger confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics.　　明确全面深化改革总目标是完善和发展中国特色社会主义制度、推进国家治理体系和治理能力现代化；　　It makes clear that the overall goal of deepening reform in every field is to improve and develop the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and modernize China’s system and capacity for governance.　　明确全面推进依法治国总目标是建设中国特色社会主义法治体系、建设社会主义法治国家；　　It makes clear that the overall goal of comprehensively advancing law-based governance is to establish a system of socialist rule of law with Chinese characteristics and build a country of socialist rule of law.　　明确党在新时代的强军目标是建设一支听党指挥、能打胜仗、作风优良的人民军队，把人民军队建设成为世界一流军队；　　It makes clear that the Party’s goal of building a strong military in the new era is to build the people’s forces into world-class forces that obey the Party’s command, can fight and win, and maintain excellent conduct.　　明确中国特色大国外交要推动构建新型国际关系，推动构建人类命运共同体；　　It makes clear that major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics aims to foster a new type of international relations and build a community with a shared future for mankind.　　明确中国特色社会主义最本质的特征是中国共产党领导，中国特色社会主义制度的最大优势是中国共产党领导，党是最高政治领导力量，提出新时代党的建设总要求，突出政治建设在党的建设中的重要地位。　　It makes clear that the defining feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the leadership of the Communist Party of China; the greatest strength of the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the leadership of the Communist Party of China; the Party is the highest force for political leadership. The Thought sets forth the general requirements for Party building in the new era and underlines the importance of political work in Party building.　　全党要深刻领会新时代中国特色社会主义思想的精神实质和丰富内涵，在各项工作中全面准确贯彻落实。　　Everyone in the Party should develop a good grasp of the essence and rich implications of the Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and fully and faithfully apply it in all our work.　　（一）坚持党对一切工作的领导。　　Ensuring Party leadership over all work;　　（二）坚持以人民为中心。　　Committing to a people-centered approach;　　（三）坚持全面深化改革。　　Continuing to comprehensively deepen reform;　　（四）坚持新发展理念。　　Adopting a new vision for development;　　（五）坚持人民当家作主。　　Seeing that the people run the country;　　（六）坚持全面依法治国。　　Ensuring every dimension of governance is law-based;　　（七）坚持社会主义核心价值体系。　　Upholding core socialist values;　　（八）坚持在发展中保障和改善民生。　　Ensuring and improving living standards through development;　　（九）坚持人与自然和谐共生。　　Ensuring harmony between human and nature;　　（十）坚持总体国家安全观。　　Pursuing a holistic approach to national security;　　（十一）坚持党对人民军队的绝对领导。　　Upholding absolute Party leadership over the people's forces;　　（十二）坚持“一国两制”和推进祖国统一。　　Upholding the principle of "one country, two systems" and promoting national reunification;　　（十三）坚持推动构建人类命运共同体。　　Promoting the building of a community with a shared future for mankind;　　（十四）坚持全面从严治党。　　Exercising full and rigorous governance over the Party.　　必须增强政治意识、大局意识、核心意识、看齐意识，自觉维护党中央权威和集中统一领导，自觉在思想上政治上行动上同党中央保持高度一致。　　We must strengthen our consciousness of the need to maintain political integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership core, and keep in alignment. We must work harder to uphold the authority and centralized, unified leadership of the Central Committee, and closely follow the Central Committee in terms of our thinking, political orientation, and actions.　　把人民对美好生活的向往作为奋斗目标，依靠人民创造历史伟业。　　We must regard as our goal the people’s aspirations to live a better life, and rely on the people to move history forward.　　　　从现在到二〇二〇年，是全面建成小康社会决胜期。　　The period between now and 2020 will be decisive in finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects.　　我们既要全面建成小康社会、实现第一个百年奋斗目标，又要乘势而上开启全面建设社会主义现代化国家新征程，向第二个百年奋斗目标进军。　　In this period, not only must we finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and achieve the first centenary goal; we must also build on this achievement to embark on a new journey toward the second centenary goal of fully building a modern socialist country.　　综合分析国际国内形势和我国发展条件，从二〇二〇年到本世纪中叶可以分两个阶段来安排。　　Based on a comprehensive analysis of the international and domestic environments and the conditions for China’s development, we have drawn up a two-stage development plan for the period from 2020 to the middle of this century.　　第一个阶段，从二〇二〇年到二〇三五年，在全面建成小康社会的基础上，再奋斗十五年，基本实现社会主义现代化。　　In the first stage from 2020 to 2035, we will build on the foundation created by the moderately prosperous society with a further 15 years of hard work to see that socialist modernization is basically realized.　　第二个阶段，从二〇三五年到本世纪中叶，在基本实现现代化的基础上，再奋斗十五年，把我国建成富强民主文明和谐美丽的社会主义现代化强国。　　In the second stage from 2035 to the middle of the 21st century, we will, building on having basically achieved modernization, work hard for a further 15 years and develop China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful.　　　　建设现代化经济体系，必须把发展经济的着力点放在实体经济上，把提高供给体系质量作为主攻方向，显著增强我国经济质量优势。　　In developing a modernized economy, we must focus on the real economy, give priority to improving the quality of the supply system, and enhance our economy’s strength in terms of quality.　　以城市群为主体构建大中小城市和小城镇协调发展的城镇格局，加快农业转移人口市民化。　　We will create networks of cities and towns based on city clusters, enabling the coordinated development of cities of different sizes and small towns, and speed up work on granting permanent urban residency to people who move from rural to urban areas.　　深化国有企业改革，发展混合所有制经济，培育具有全球竞争力的世界一流企业。　　We will further reform of State-owned enterprises, develop mixed-ownership economic entities, and turn Chinese enterprises into world-class, globally competitive firms.　　开放带来进步，封闭必然落后。中国开放的大门不会关闭，只会越开越大。　　Openness brings progress, while self-seclusion leaves one behind. China will not close its door to the world; we will only become more and more open.　　　　我国社会主义民主是维护人民根本利益的最广泛、最真实、最管用的民主。发展社会主义民主政治就是要体现人民意志、保障人民权益、激发人民创造活力，用制度体系保证人民当家作主。　　China's socialist democracy is the broadest, most genuine, and most effective democracy to safeguard the fundamental interests of the people. The very purpose of developing socialist democracy is to give full expression to the will of the people, protect their rights and interests, spark their creativity, and provide systemic and institutional guarantees to ensure the people run the country.　　中国特色社会主义政治发展道路，是近代以来中国人民长期奋斗历史逻辑、理论逻辑、实践逻辑的必然结果，是坚持党的本质属性、践行党的根本宗旨的必然要求。　　The path of socialist political development with Chinese characteristics is the logical outcome of the evolution of history, theory, and practice as the Chinese people have long engaged in struggles since the advent of modern times. It is requisite for maintaining the very nature of the Party and fulfilling its fundamental purpose.　　（一）坚持党的领导、人民当家作主、依法治国有机统一。　　Upholding the unity of Party leadership, the people running the country, and law-based governance　　党的领导是人民当家作主和依法治国的根本保证，人民当家作主是社会主义民主政治的本质特征，依法治国是党领导人民治理国家的基本方式，三者统一于我国社会主义民主政治伟大实践。　　Party leadership is the fundamental guarantee for ensuring that the people run the country and governance in China is law-based; that the people run the country is an essential feature of socialist democracy; and law-based governance is the basic way for the Party to lead the people in governing the country. These three elements are integral components of socialist democracy.　　（二）加强人民当家作主制度保障。　　Strengthening institutional guarantees to ensure the people run the country　　人民代表大会制度是坚持党的领导、人民当家作主、依法治国有机统一的根本政治制度安排，必须长期坚持、不断完善。　　We must uphold long term and steadily improve the system of people’s congresses, a political system fundamental to the Party’s leadership, the people’s running of the country, and law-based governance.　　（三）发挥社会主义协商民主重要作用。　　Giving play to the important role of socialist consultative democracy　　有事好商量，众人的事情由众人商量，是人民民主的真谛。协商民主是实现党的领导的重要方式，是我国社会主义民主政治的特有形式和独特优势。　　The essence of the people's democracy is that the people get to discuss their own affairs. Consultative democracy is an important way of effecting Party leadership and a model and strength unique to China’s socialist democracy.　　（四）深化依法治国实践。　　Advancing law-based governance　　全面依法治国是国家治理的一场深刻革命，必须坚持厉行法治，推进科学立法、严格执法、公正司法、全民守法。　　|Advancing law-based governance in all fields is a profound revolution in China’s governance. We must promote the rule of law and work to ensure sound lawmaking, strict law enforcement, impartial administration of justice, and the observance of law by everyone.　　（五）深化机构和行政体制改革。　　Deepening reform of Party and government institutions and the system of government administration　　转变政府职能，深化简政放权，创新监管方式，增强政府公信力和执行力，建设人民满意的服务型政府。　　The government needs to transform its functions, further streamline administration and delegate powers, develop new ways of regulation and supervision and strengthen its credibility and administrative capacity, building itself into a service-oriented government able to satisfy the needs of the people.　　（六）巩固和发展爱国统一战线。　　Consolidating and developing the patriotic united front　　统一战线是党的事业取得胜利的重要法宝，必须长期坚持。要高举爱国主义、社会主义旗帜，牢牢把握大团结大联合的主题，坚持一致性和多样性统一，找到最大公约数，画出最大同心圆。　　The united front is an important way to ensure the success of the Party’s cause, and we must maintain commitment to it in the long term. We must uphold the banner of patriotism and socialism, strive to achieve great unity and solidarity, balance commonality and diversity, and expand common ground and the convergence of interests.　　　　文化是一个国家、一个民族的灵魂。文化兴国运兴，文化强民族强。没有高度的文化自信，没有文化的繁荣兴盛，就没有中华民族伟大复兴。　　Culture is a country and nation’s soul. Our country will thrive only if our culture thrives, and our nation will be strong only if our culture is strong. Without full confidence in our culture, without a rich and prosperous culture, the Chinese nation will not be able to rejuvenate itself.　　（一）牢牢掌握意识形态工作领导权。　　Holding firmly the leading position in ideological work　　意识形态决定文化前进方向和发展道路。必须推进马克思主义中国化时代化大众化，建设具有强大凝聚力和引领力的社会主义意识形态，使全体人民在理想信念、价值理念、道德观念上紧紧团结在一起。　　Ideology determines the direction a culture should take and the path it should follow as it develops. We must continue to adapt Marxism to China’s conditions, keep it up-to-date, and enhance its popular appeal. We will develop socialist ideology that has the ability to unite and the power to inspire the people to embrace shared ideals, convictions, values, and moral standards.　　（二）培育和践行社会主义核心价值观。　　Cultivating and observing core socialist values　　社会主义核心价值观是当代中国精神的集中体现，凝结着全体人民共同的价值追求。　　Core socialist values represent the contemporary Chinese spirit and are a crystallization of the values shared by Chinese people.　　要以培养担当民族复兴大任的时代新人为着眼点，强化教育引导、实践养成、制度保障，发挥社会主义核心价值观对国民教育、精神文明创建、精神文化产品创作生产传播的引领作用，把社会主义核心价值观融入社会发展各方面，转化为人们的情感认同和行为习惯。　　We will focus on fostering a new generation capable of shouldering the mission of national rejuvenation; we will offer them better guidance, expose them to practice, and provide institutional guarantees. We will draw on core socialist values to guide education, efforts to raise cultural-ethical standards, and the creation, production, and distribution of cultural and intellectual products, and see that all areas of social development are imbued with these values and that they become part of people’s thinking and behavior.　　（三）加强思想道德建设。　　Raising intellectual and moral standards　　人民有信仰，国家有力量，民族有希望。要提高人民思想觉悟、道德水准、文明素养，提高全社会文明程度。　　When a people have ideals, their country will have strength, and their nation will have a bright future. We will help our people raise their political awareness and moral standards, foster appreciation of fine culture, and enhance social etiquette and civility.　　（四）繁荣发展社会主义文艺。　　Seeing socialist literature and art thrive　　社会主义文艺是人民的文艺，必须坚持以人民为中心的创作导向，在深入生活、扎根人民中进行无愧于时代的文艺创造。　　Socialist culture and art are for the people: Writers and artists should take a people-centered approach and draw inspiration from everyday life and the experiences of the people to produce works that do justice our times.　　（五）推动文化事业和文化产业发展。　　Promoting the development of cultural programs and industries　　满足人民过上美好生活的新期待，必须提供丰富的精神食粮。　　To meet the people’s new aspirations for a better life, we must provide them with rich intellectual nourishment.　　　　带领人民创造美好生活，是我们党始终不渝的奋斗目标。必须始终把人民利益摆在至高无上的地位，让改革发展成果更多更公平惠及全体人民，朝着实现全体人民共同富裕不断迈进。　　To lead the people to a better life is our Party’s abiding goal. We must put the people’s interests above all else, see that the gains of reform and development benefit all our people in a fair way, and strive to achieve shared prosperity for everyone.　　（一）优先发展教育事业。　　Giving priority to developing education　　建设教育强国是中华民族伟大复兴的基础工程，必须把教育事业放在优先位置，加快教育现代化，办好人民满意的教育。　　Strengthening education is fundamental to our pursuit of national rejuvenation. We must give priority to education, speed up its modernization, and develop education that people are satisfied with.　　（二）提高就业质量和人民收入水平。　　Improving the quality of employment and raising incomes　　就业是最大的民生。要坚持就业优先战略和积极就业政策，实现更高质量和更充分就业。　　Employment is pivotal to people’s wellbeing. We must give high priority to employment and pursue a proactive employment policy, striving to achieve fuller employment and create better quality jobs.　　（三）加强社会保障体系建设。　　Strengthening the social security system　　按照兜底线、织密网、建机制的要求，全面建成覆盖全民、城乡统筹、权责清晰、保障适度、可持续的多层次社会保障体系。全面实施全民参保计划。　　We will act on the policy requirements to help those most in need, to build a tightly woven safety net, and to build the necessary institutions, as we work to develop a sustainable multi-tiered social security system that covers the entire population in both urban and rural areas, with clearly defined rights and responsibilities, and support that hits the right level. We will look to see that everyone has access to social security.　　坚持房子是用来住的、不是用来炒的定位，加快建立多主体供给、多渠道保障、租购并举的住房制度，让全体人民住有所居。　　We must not forget that housing is for living in, not for speculation. With this in mind, we will move faster to put in place a housing system that ensures supply through multiple sources, provides housing support through multiple channels, and encourages both housing purchase and renting. This will make us better placed to meet the housing needs of all of our people.　　（四）坚决打赢脱贫攻坚战　　Winning the battle against poverty　　确保到二〇二〇年我国现行标准下农村贫困人口实现脱贫，贫困县全部摘帽，解决区域性整体贫困，做到脱真贫、真脱贫。　　We must ensure that by the year 2020, all rural residents living below the current poverty line will have been out of poverty, and poverty is eliminated in all poor counties and regions. Poverty alleviation should reach those who truly need it and deliver genuine outcomes.　　（五）实施健康中国战略。　　Carrying out the Healthy China initiative　　人民健康是民族昌盛和国家富强的重要标志。要完善国民健康政策，为人民群众提供全方位全周期健康服务。　　|A healthy population is a key mark of a prosperous nation and a strong country. We will improve the national health policy, and ensure the delivery of comprehensive lifecyle health services for our people.　　（六）打造共建共治共享的社会治理格局。　　Establishing a social governance model based on collaboration, participation and common interests　　加强社会治理制度建设，完善党委领导、政府负责、社会协同、公众参与、法治保障的社会治理体制，提高社会治理社会化、法治化、智能化、专业化水平。　　We will step up institution building in social governance and improve the law-based social governance model under which Party committees exercise leadership, government assumes responsibility, non-governmental actors provide assistance, and the public get involved. We will strengthen public participation and rule of law in social governance, and make such governance smarter and more specialized.　　（七）有效维护国家安全。　　Effectively safeguarding national security　　国家安全是安邦定国的重要基石，维护国家安全是全国各族人民根本利益所在。要完善国家安全战略和国家安全政策，坚决维护国家政治安全，统筹推进各项安全工作。　　National security is the cornerstone of peace and stability of our country, and safeguarding it is in the fundamental interests of the Chinese people of all ethnic groups. We will improve our national security strategy and policy, guarantee China’s political security, and take coordinated steps to ensure security in all areas.　　　　我们要建设的现代化是人与自然和谐共生的现代化，既要创造更多物质财富和精神财富以满足人民日益增长的美好生活需要，也要提供更多优质生态产品以满足人民日益增长的优美生态环境需要。　　The modernization that we pursue is one characterized by harmonious coexistence between man and nature. In addition to creating more material and cultural wealth to meet people’s ever-increasing needs for a better life, we need also to provide more quality ecological goods to meet people’s ever-growing demands for a beautiful environment.　　必须坚持节约优先、保护优先、自然恢复为主的方针，形成节约资源和保护环境的空间格局、产业结构、生产方式、生活方式，还自然以宁静、和谐、美丽。　　We should, acting on the principles of prioritizing resource conservation and environmental protection and letting nature restore itself, develop spatial layouts, industrial structures, and ways of work and life that help conserve resources and protect the environment. With this, we can restore the serenity, harmony, and beauty of nature.　　（一）推进绿色发展。　　Promoting green development　　加快建立绿色生产和消费的法律制度和政策导向，建立健全绿色低碳循环发展的经济体系。　　We will step up efforts to establish a legal and policy framework that promotes green production and consumption, and promote a sound economic structure that facilitates green, low-carbon, and circular development.　　（二）着力解决突出环境问题。　　Solving prominent environmental problems　　坚持全民共治、源头防治，持续实施大气污染防治行动，打赢蓝天保卫战。　　We will get everyone involved in improving the environment and address environmental issues at the root. We will continue our campaign to prevent and control air pollution to make our skies blue again.　　（三）加大生态系统保护力度。　　Intensifying the protection of ecosystems　　实施重要生态系统保护和修复重大工程，优化生态安全屏障体系，构建生态廊道和生物多样性保护网络，提升生态系统质量和稳定性。　　We will carry out major projects to protect and restore key ecosystems, improve the system of shields for ecological security, and develop ecological corridors and biodiversity protection networks, so as to strengthen the quality and stability of our ecosystems.　　（四）改革生态环境监管体制。　　Reforming the environmental regulation system　　加强对生态文明建设的总体设计和组织领导，设立国有自然资源资产管理和自然生态监管机构，完善生态环境管理制度，统一行使全民所有自然资源资产所有者职责，统一行使所有国土空间用途管制和生态保护修复职责，统一行使监管城乡各类污染排放和行政执法职责。　　We will strengthen overall planning, organization, and leadership for building an ecological civilization. We will establish regulatory agencies to manage State-owned natural resource assets and monitor natural ecosystems, and improve environmental management systems. These agencies will, in a unified way, perform the duties of the owner of public-owned natural resource assets, the duties of regulating the use of all territorial space and protecting and restoring ecosystems, and the duties of monitoring the discharge of all pollutants in urban and rural areas and conducting administrative law enforcement.　　　　国防和军队建设正站在新的历史起点上。　　We have reached a new historical starting point in strengthening national defense and the armed forces.　　树立科技是核心战斗力的思想，推进重大技术创新、自主创新。　　We must keep it firm in our minds that technology is the core combat capability, encourage innovations in major technologies, and conduct innovation independently.　　加强军事人才培养体系建设，建设创新型人民军队。　　We will strengthen the system for training military personnel, and make our people's forces more innovative.　　军队是要准备打仗的，一切工作都必须坚持战斗力标准，向能打仗、打胜仗聚焦。　　A military is built to fight. Our military must regard combat capability as the criterion to meet in all its work and focus on how to win when it is called on.　　我们的军队是人民军队，我们的国防是全民国防。　　Our military is the people's military, and our national defense is the responsibility of every one of us.　　　　事实证明，“一国两制”是解决历史遗留的香港、澳门问题的最佳方案，也是香港、澳门回归后保持长期繁荣稳定的最佳制度。　　The policy of "one country, two systems" has proved to be the best solution to the questions of Hong Kong and Macao, left by history, and the best institutional guarantee for long-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao after their return.　　香港、澳门发展同内地发展紧密相连。要支持香港、澳门融入国家发展大局。　　The development of Hong Kong and Macao is closely tied up with that of the mainland. We will continue to support Hong Kong and Macao in integrating their own development into the overall development of the country.　　制定完善便利香港、澳门居民在内地发展的政策措施。　　We will formulate and improve policies and measures to make it more convenient for people from Hong Kong and Macao to develop careers on the mainland.　　我们坚持爱国者为主体的“港人治港”、“澳人治澳”，发展壮大爱国爱港爱澳力量。　　We will remain committed to the policy for the Hong Kong people to govern Hong Kong and the Macao people to govern Macao, with patriots playing the principal role.　　解决台湾问题、实现祖国完全统一，是全体中华儿女共同愿望，是中华民族根本利益所在。　　Resolving the Taiwan question to realize China's complete reunification is the shared aspiration of all Chinese people, and is in the fundamental interests of the Chinese nation.　　一个中国原则是两岸关系的政治基础。　　The one-China principle is the political foundation of cross-Straits relations.　　我们坚决维护国家主权和领土完整，绝不容忍国家分裂的历史悲剧重演。　　We stand firm in safeguarding China's sovereignty and territorial integration and will never allow the historical tragedy of national division to repeat itself.　　我们有坚定的意志、充分的信心、足够的能力挫败任何形式的“台独”分裂图谋。　　We have the resolve, the confidence, and the ability to defeat separatist attempts for "Taiwan independence" in any form.　　　　中国共产党始终把为人类作出新的更大的贡献作为自己的使命。　　To make new and greater contributions for mankind is our Party's abiding mission.　　我们生活的世界充满希望，也充满挑战。我们不能因现实复杂而放弃梦想，不能因理想遥远而放弃追求。　　Our world is full of both hope and challenges. We should not give up on our dreams because the reality around us is too complicated; we should not stop pursuing our ideals because they seem out of our reach.　　我们呼吁，各国人民同心协力，构建人类命运共同体，建设持久和平、普遍安全、共同繁荣、开放包容、清洁美丽的世界。　　We call on the people of all countries to work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind, to build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security, and common prosperity.　　　　中国特色社会主义进入新时代，我们党一定要有新气象新作为。　　As socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era, our Party must get a new look and make new accomplishments.　　人民群众反对什么、痛恨什么，我们就要坚决防范和纠正什么。　　We must guard against and correct with resolve the practices the people oppose and resent.　　新时代党的建设要求：　　The general requirements for Party building for the new era are:　　（一）把党的政治建设摆在首位。　　Putting political Party building first.　　（二）用新时代中国特色社会主义思想武装全党。　　Arming the whole Party with the Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era　　（三）建设高素质专业化干部队伍。　　Training a contingent of competent and professional officials　　（四）加强基层组织建设。　　Strengthening primary-level Party organizations　　（五）持之以恒正风肃纪。　　Working ceaselessly to improve Party conduct and enforce Party discipline　　（六）夺取反腐败斗争压倒性胜利。　　Securing a sweeping victory in the fight against corruption　　（七）健全党和国家监督体系。　　Improving Party and state oversight systems　　（八）全面增强执政本领。　　Strengthening every dimension of our ability for governance　　青年兴则国家兴，青年强则国家强。青年一代有理想、有本领、有担当，国家就有前途，民族就有希望。　　A nation will prosper only when its young people thrive; a country will be full of hope and have a great tomorrow only when its younger generations have ideals, ability, and a strong sense of responsibility.　　中国梦是历史的、现实的，也是未来的；是我们这一代的，更是青年一代的。　　The Chinese Dream is a dream about history, the present, and the future. It is a dream of our generation, but even more so, a dream of the younger generations.　　来源：新华社、中国日报网