　　每个人身边总有那么几个爱迟到的朋友，他们姗姗来迟背后的原因是什么？是因为他们不讲礼貌或不懂得体谅别人吗？一些研究表明，事实并不仅仅是我们想象的那么简单。本集《随身英语》探讨这个恼人的习惯背后可能存在的深层原因。　　　　　　We all have one, don’t we? A friend who’s always late. The one who turns up for coffee a full half hour after  . The one who seems to be forever ‘’. The dear pal who sends a message saying “Sorry, bit delayed”, when they’re already 20 minutes . I mean, what kind of a friend is that? Or just maybe, if you’re really honest, this   individual is actually you yourself?　　Either way, if you’re , lateness can be extremely irritating, even . How on earth can people be so ? 　　Well, recent research suggests that there might be more to this than simple rudeness. Psychologists from Washington University believe people  time differently. Their study gave participants a specific amount of time in which to complete a task, and even provided them with a clock. Despite this, some people became so  in the activity that they completely  and forgot to check the clock.　　According to psychologist Dr Susan Krauss Whitborne, from University of Masachussetts Amherst, this is like when we scroll through our social media  and think only five minutes have , when in fact twenty have . Does that feel familiar? She writes in Psychology Today that those who were better at clock-checking were therefore “less reliant on their potentially flawed internal .” So, what about the reasons beyond our faulty inner clocks?　　Well, our personality also plays a role. Laura Clarke writes for BBC Capital that the less  among us often share traits such as “optimism, low levels of self-control, anxiety, or    ”.Why optimism, you ask? Optimists tend to how much they can achieve and underestimate problems – which means they don’t account for the long traffic jam on the way to meet you for that coffee.　　Here’s another thought: maybe language is to blame? The English phrase ‘’ is used to describe the optimum time to arrive at an event. If you’re too early, you can appear overly eager, but if you’re a bit late you seem cool and sophisticated. The problem is, what one person regards as fashionably late, another may view as plain impolite. So, next time you have coffee, do try to be on time.　　　　the appointed time 约好的时间　　stuck in traffic 堵在路上　　behind schedule 迟于约定的时间　　persistently 一次又一次地　　tardy 迟到的，行动缓慢的　　on the receiving end 等人的那一方　　infuriating 令人愤怒的　　inconsiderate 不为他人着想的，不体谅别人的　　perceive 看待　　engrossed 全身贯注的　　lose track of time 忘记时间　　feed （社交媒体上的）状态更新　　elapse （时间）流逝　　slip by 不知不觉地流逝　　timekeeper （个人）对时间的把握　　punctual 守时的　　a penchant for （拥有）…的嗜好，倾向　　thrill-seeking 追求刺激的　　overestimate 高估　　to be fashionably late “约会故意迟到一会儿”，以显示自己处事老练而时髦