　　英国文化教育协会发布全球首部中国大陆地区雅思考试官方白皮书，上海市雅思考生听说读写能力均居中国内地之首。　　Shanghai leads the mainland in an international standardized test of English language proficiency, according to the British Council’s inaugural white paper on mainland test takers’ IELTS performance.　　英国文化教育协会发布全球首部中国大陆地区雅思考试官方白皮书，上海市雅思考生听说读写能力均居中国内地之首。　　The white paper, released last week, shows people on Chinese mainland have been making progress in their ability to listen, read, write and speak English in the past five years.　　上周发布的《白皮书》显示，过去五年间，中国大陆地区雅思考生在听说读写各项英语技能上均有小幅提升。　　People who took the IELTS Academic test showed the least progress in speaking English. The test takers’ total score from the four-part test are below the world average, with the largest gap in the speaking category. The white paper also showed mixed development of English skills in various areas on the mainland.　　参加学术类雅思考试的学生口语成绩进步最小，中国大陆地区学术类雅思考生总体表现与全球平均水平仍然存在一定差距，其中口语技能差距最大。白皮书显示，中国大陆地区雅思考生各项技能都不同程度提升。　　Shanghai, which achieved respective total scores of 5.87 points and 5.95 points in the academic and training categories, led the mainland in the listening, speaking, reading and writing tests. Its universities and high schools also had the best results.　　在学术类和培训类雅思考试中，上海的学生分别达到了5.87分和5.95分，听说读写能力均居中国内地之首。上海的大学生和高中生都取得最好成绩。　　Barry O’Sullivan, head of assessment research and development at the British Council, said Shanghai stood out against the other provinces and cities because it is an international city, where students have a better environment and stronger motivation to learn and use English.　　英国文化教育协会高级测评顾问、首席专家巴里教授称，上海之所以比其他省份表现都要优异，是因为上海是一个国际化的城市，上海的学生有更好的语言环境，和学习动力。　　The average score of Shanghai test takers in reading is higher than the world average, and their listening and writing scores are on par with the world average. Shanghai’s speaking score is, however, below the world average.　　上海学生的阅读平均分要高于世界平均分，听力和写作也要高于世界平均分，但是上海的口语平均分低于世界平均水平。　　The city’s Fudan University topped other universities on the mainland with the highest average IELTS scores. Fudan students’ reading, listening and writing scores exceeded the world average but their speaking scores were below it.　　上海(,)在中国各大学的雅思成绩排名中，位列第一。复旦大学学生的听读写分数高于世界平均水平，但是口语分略低。　　According to the white paper, all the test takers said self-motivation was the most important factor for them, while those with IELTS scores higher than 7 points credited their high school teachers for playing an important role.　　根据白皮书，参加雅思考试的学生，自我激励对于他们来说是非常重要的因素，而雅思得分高于7分的考生，很多都认为他们高中老师起到非常重要的作用。　　The white paper also found that the English teachers on the mainland had mixed capabilities in reading, writing, listening and speaking. They were weakest at speaking English.　　白皮书还指出，中国大陆的英语老师听说读写能力都不错，但是口语是他们的最弱项。　　Chinese authorities are working to address these issues. For example, they will release the Chinese Standards of English by the end of the year. It will outline English students’ proficiency at nine levels.　　中国教育部门正努力改变这一现象。比如，今年年底官方将公布英语考试的新分级制度，将会根据学生的英语水平，分成九级。