　　本文将帮你了解，资金是如何在世界各地秘密流动的。　　Client’s finance is on the scrutinyhas never before, here is a financial time guardsome of the technics that let the money flow around the world incognito.　　各国对离岸金融的监管正变得日益严厉，下面是一份FT指南帮你了解资金是如何在世界各地秘密流动的。　　First of all, Shell companies　　首先是，空壳公司　　The client’s money sits in as account, often in Switzerland. Formally, the account is not held by a human being but an offshore company. Typically, the company is registered in a tax haven, such as the British Virgin Islands. The company’s dress is a PO box. These can often serve as the address of thousands of companies.　　客户资金存放在一个银行账户中，账户通常位于瑞士，从表面上看，这个账户并非个人持有，而是属于一家离岸公司。这种公司通常设立在国际避税地。公司地址是一个邮政信箱，而这类邮箱可以用作上千家公司的地址　　The client is not named among the directors. Instead, the directors of nominees are supplied by a law firm.　　客户本人不会出现在这家离岸公司的董事会中，相反所有董事会成员都由一家律师事务所提供　　These law firms, based in places such as Panama, set up the BVI company. Sometimes that offshore company will in turn be owned by another offshore company.　　表面上正是这家可能位于巴拿马的律所注册了英属维京群岛的那家离岸公司，有时这价廉公司还会由另一家离岸公司持有。　　That company will in turn sign a declaration of trusts or power of attorney granting control to the client.　　而离岸公司会签署授权协议将账户的支配权授予最初提到的那位客户。　　The only people who know the identity of the client are the bank, the law firm and a company registration agent……. And sometimes even one or more of those are in the dark as well.　　只有银行、律所和离岸公司注册机构会了解客户的真实身份。而有时它们中一方甚至多方也蒙在鼓里。　　Holdmail　　保留邮件　　The client requests that no documentation is sent by the bank to his home address. If the client has not declared his account home country, this technique avoids a paper trail. The authorities in his home country will not be alerted to the existence of an otherwise invisible account.　　客户要求银行不向他的家庭地址发送任何文件,如果他没有在自己国家申报这一账户，这一做法就能避免留下可追踪的文件记录。他所在的国家的监管机构就无从知晓这个账户的存在。　　The next technics is used of Promoters　　推销员　　Promoters are intermediaries used by the bank to bring in clients.　　“推销员”是银行用来拉客户的中间人。　　Their contracts state that they are not employed by the bank and may not present themselves as such。　　接合同看这些人并非受雇于银行，也不能对外声称代表银行。　　Sometimes the promoter will have a contract to bring in specific, named clients.　　有时这些“推销员”的合同会要求他们为银行拉来某位指定客户。　　The promoters-or the offshore vehicles they sometimes use- are entitled to a share of profits…that the bank makes from the clients’money that the promoters bring in.　　则可在银行从这位客户赚到的钱中分成.　　This share tends to be around 30%, sometimes, as high as 50%.　　最高能到五成　　Next stop, Credit cards　　信用卡　　The bank arranges credit cards linked to, say, and a Swill account. The bank tells the credit card company that the bills should be sent to, and be settled by, the bank itself, not the client　　银行将一张信用卡与一个瑞士账户绑定。银行通知信用卡公司，把账单寄给自己，由银行而非客户来交款。　　The client is then free to spend using the card without the bills ever landing at his home address.　　客户可以自由使用信用卡却永远不会有账单寄到家中。　　It also means that money paid into the Swiss account- or paid to the offshore company by which the account is held …….can be withdrawn by the client in cash or through purchases without leaving a paper trail to his clients home address .　　这意味着，取出存在瑞士账户里的钱或者持有这一账户的离岸公司的钱。却没有任何线索能指向客户的家庭住址。　　Lastly, Code words　　暗语　　Bankers give clients pre-paid debit cards linked to offshore accounts. This allows their clients to shift money from undeclared offshore accounts back into their home country, say inthe US. The client could then spend the money without leaving a paper trail.　　银行给客户一张离岸账户绑定的预存了钱的借记卡,这允许客户从未申报的离岸账户中将资金转回原籍国，比如说，美国,却不留下任何文件记录。　　The client’s name does not appear on the cards. Up to 30,000 per month could be moved by this way. As an extra precaution some used codes to let the bank know their cards needed topping up. They speak out of their banks only in secret codes, and they have it in otherboats of financial secrecy.　　客户的名字不会出现在借记卡上，而每月最多可有3万美元通过这种方式转移。为了以防万一，当客户需要银行往卡里打钱时，他们会通过暗语与银行联系，有关离岸金融的各种秘密。