　　首先是“直接回答”，是指针对考官的提问直接正面回答，切忌兜圈子和回避考官问题。接下来，我们要针对回答进行解释，给出原因。很多同学面对熟悉的话题很容易想到原因，但是如果是日常生活中很少接触的事物，则会没有头绪。出现这种状况的原因是大家往往倾向于从事物本身的特点出发想原因，参见以下例子：（请注意黑体字因果逻辑连接词的替换）：　　I’m quite into music for the reason that it never fails to cheer me up。　　I love my name coz it makes people easily remember me。　　I enjoy playing computer games as it’s really fun and it’s a great way to loosen up。　　从这个角度出发想原因并没错，但是当这条路走不通的时候，可以从其他角度发散思维。例如回想一下自己以往好的或者糟糕的经历，参考以下例子：　　I can’t stand public transportation coz every time I take a bus or subway， especially during rush hours， it’s packed like sardines and I feel like I’m going to die。　　Swimming would be the last thing （that） I want to do。 And as I see it， it’s mainly because once I almost drowned in a river when I was little。 It was so horrible。　　其次可以想想身边人对你的影响，参考以下例子：　　I’m a big fan of classical music thanks to my mom， who used to put on some music by Beethoven or Schubert at home when I was a kid。　　I find it great to ride bicycles thanks to my bestie， Lily， who is a super fan of cycling。 Actually， she always invites me to some local cycling events and gradually it’s become a necessary part of my life as well。　　总结一下，当刚刚听到问题没有思路时，可以从以下几个方面来找灵感：事物本身特点、自己过去经历（开心的/不开心的）、其他人的影响。这样可以帮助我们大大提高流利度。　　最后，补充一些细节来支撑刚刚给出的原因。不知道如何给具体例子的烤鸭们，李双老师建议参考“个人习惯句型”I mean/Actually/In fact/For example， what， who， when， where， why。　　下面我们通过Part 1和Part 3两道例题，再来完整回顾一下“直接回答-给原因-给细节”这个法则。　　Part 1例题：What’s your favorite part of your country？　　I definitely think the food culture is the best part of my country。 （直接作答）I mean， China never fails to satisfy all peoples’ needs for tasty food。 （给原因）Although sometimes the way we make food is not that healthy， I still think it’s an ideal place for foodies for the reason that it has a lot to offer， from spicy food to light-cooked food to various kinds of dessert。（给细节）　　有时“给原因”和“给细节”的顺序可以灵活调整，参考下面Part 3部分的一道例题：Are science museums popular in China？　　Definitely！ Science museums are popular among not only science buff but also people who are not that crazy about science （直接作答）。 Actually， no matter it’s during the weekdays or on the weekends， science museums are always busy and full of visitors （给细节）。 As I see it， it’s mainly because the exhibitions/displays in those science museums enable people to enhance their knowledge about S&T in an interactive and vivid way （给原因）。　　最后，建议大家在平时备考训练过程中，有意识地培养自己的纵向逻辑，这样可以让回答更有层次感，避免逻辑过于跳跃，祝大家屠鸭顺利！