　　英式俚语是在英语本土语言环境下形成的，正如英语本身一样，从城市到城市逐年变化，英式俚语不断发展和转型。美式俚语随着电视节目，电影和其他媒体的涌入而逐渐普及，虽然这些媒体占据了大多数全球人口的屏幕，但是一旦你触及到英式俚语的表层之下，你就会发现英式俚语有更多的可用性。　　所以，如果你想看看英国人日常使用什么样的词汇进行对话，那么看看我们三十个最好的英国俚语吧，这将会让您立即开始使用这些词并将它们纳入您的词汇表。　　1. Mate　　伙计，亲爱的　　‘Mate’ – one of the commonly used terms of endearment and affection in British slang terms. Used when you are talking to a close friend, and is often easily substituted for the American ‘buddy’, ‘pal’, or ‘dude’.　　‘Mate’是英式俚语中最常用来表达喜爱的俚语之一。与亲密好友交谈时常常使用这个词，mate也可以作为美国俚语‘buddy’, ‘pal’, 或者‘dude’的替换词。　　For example, ‘Alright, mate?’　　例如，‘好的，亲爱的。’　　2. Bugger All　　一点也不，什么都没有　　‘Bugger all’ – a British slang term used to be a more vulgar synonym for ‘nothing at all’.　　‘Bugger all’ – 一个英式俚语，过去是‘nothing at all’比较粗俗的一个同义词。　　For example, ‘I’ve had bugger all to do all day.’　　例如，‘我一整天什么都没有做。’　　3. Knackered　　疲惫的　　‘Knackered’ – a great word and phrase used by Britons to describe their tiredness and exhaustion, in any given situation. Often substituted in friendly circles for ‘exhausted’.　　‘Knackered’是英国人在特定状况下用来描述疲惫和筋疲力尽的一个词。这个词通常作为‘exhausted’的同义词替换。　　For example, ‘I am absolutely knackered after working all day.’　　例如，‘工作一整天后我非常疲惫。’　　4. Gutted　　十分悲伤　　‘Gutted’ – a British slang term that is one of the saddest on the lists in terms of pure contextual emotion. To be ‘gutted’ about a situation means to be devastated and saddened.　　就最纯粹的语境情感而言，‘Gutted’是英式俚语中表达最伤心的情感之一。To be ‘gutted’ about a situation意为非常绝望和难过。　　For example, ‘His girlfriend broke up with him. He’s absolutely gutted.’　　例如，‘他的女朋友和他分手了，他感到非常难过’。　　5. Gobsmacked　　惊讶的　　‘Gobsmacked’ – a truly British expression meaning to be shocked and surprised beyond belief. The expression is believed by some to come literally from ‘gob’ (a British expression for mouth), and the look of shock that comes from someone hitting it.　　‘Gobsmacked’ – 一个真正的英式表达，意为令某人非常震惊和惊讶。　　For example. ‘I was gobsmacked when she told me she was pregnant with triplets.’　　例如，‘当她告诉我她怀了三胞胎宝宝的时候，我非常惊讶。’　　6. Cock Up　　把….弄得一团糟　　A ‘cock up’ is a mistake, a failure of large or epic proportions.　　‘Cock Up’意为大范围的错误或者失败。　　For example, ‘I cocked up the orders for table number four.’　　例如，‘我把四号订单弄得一团糟。’　　7. Blinding　　盲目的　　‘Blinding’ – a slang term that is far from something that physically causes someone to lose their sight.　　‘Blinding’一个英式俚语，指非生理性看不见东西，形容某人盲目。　　For example, ‘That tackle from the Spanish player was blinding.’　　例如，‘这个西班牙球员的进攻非常盲目。’　　8. Lost the Plot　　生气　　‘Lost the plot’ is one that can actually be discerned by examining the words themselves. To ‘lose the plot’ can mean either to become angry and/or exasperated to a fault, or in a derogatory – if slightly outdated sense – to mean someone who has become irrational and/or acting ridiculously.　　‘Lost the Plot’的含义可以通过观察单词本身发现。‘Lost the Plot’意为对某个错误非常生气或者表示一种贬义–意为某人不理性或者举止荒谬。　　For example, ‘When my girlfriend saw the mess I’d made, she lost the plot.’　　例如，‘当我的女朋友看到我制造的混乱时，她非常生气。’　　9. Cheers　　谢谢　　‘Cheers’ doesn’t quite have the same meaning that it does in other counties – of course, it still means ‘celebrations’ when toasting a drink with some friends, but in British slang, it also means ‘thanks’ or ‘thank you’.　　此处‘cheers’的含义与这个词在其他国家的含义有所不同 – 当然在与朋友喝酒时这个词仍然与‘celebration’同义，但是在英式俚语中它也意为‘thanks’或者‘thank you’。　　For example, ‘Cheers for getting me that drink, Steve’.　　例如，‘史蒂夫，谢谢你给我拿喝的东西。’　　10. Ace　　非常棒　　‘Ace’ – a British slang term that means something that is brilliant or excellent.　　‘Ace’是一个英式俚语，意为某事非常精彩非常棒，　　For example, ‘Jenny is ace at the lab experiments’.　　例如，‘詹尼是实验室中的高手。’