　　据研究表明，颜值高的人在求职过程中也会遭到歧视。因为人们往往认为颜值高的人理应追求更好的工作，所以当他们应聘不是那么理想、工资较低的工作时，招聘方更愿意选择长相更为普通的应聘者。　　Being perceived as attractive isn’t usually considered much of an impediment in today’s world. Oh, sure, there’s the endless compliments and fawning adoration, but really, why complain?　　在当今世界，长得好看通常不会成为障碍。哦，当然，还会招来无止境的赞美和爱慕。既然如此，还有什么好抱怨的呢？　　Researchers have found one area that being pretty makes life a challenge – securing yourself a boring, low paying job. While we might scoff, discrimination is discrimination, and beautiful people can also find themselves signing up for entry level jobs at some point in their lives.　　研究人员发现，颜值高的人在应聘一份枯燥乏味的低薪工作时也会因此遇到人生挑战。虽然我们可能对此嗤之以鼻，但歧视就是歧视，好看的人在某个时期也可能去应聘低门槛的工作。　　For the most part good looks is a blessing. We treat pretty people more favorably in general, often vote for them more in elections, and pay them more in their professions.　　在大多数情况下，美貌是一种福气。我们通常更喜欢颜值高的人，他们在选举中得票更多，在工作中薪水更高。　　Our research suggests that attractive people may be discriminated against in selection for relatively less desirable jobs.　　“我们的研究表明，颜值高的人在相对不太理想的工作上可能会受到歧视。”　　This stands in contrast to a large body of research that concluded that attractiveness, by and large, helps candidates in the selection process.　　“大量关于美貌的研究认为，一般来说，在被选择的过程中，颜值高对候选人是有帮助的。但我们的研究却与之相反。”　　Researchers carried out four experiments involving more than 750 participants, including university students and managers who make hiring decisions in the real world.　　研究人员对750多名参与者进行了四组实验，实验对象里有真正的大学生和招聘经理。　　Participants were shown profiles of two potential job candidates that included photos, one attractive and one unattractive.　　研究人员给参与者展示两份求职者的资料，其中包括照片，其中一张长相出众，而另一张则其貌不扬。　　Participants were then asked a series of questions designed to measure their perceptions of the job candidates and whether they would hire these candidates for a less-than-desirable job.　　随后，研究人员向参与者提出一系列问题，来衡量他们对于求职者的看法，以及他们是否会聘用这些求职者来做一份不太理想的工作。　　The less desirable jobs included a warehouse worker, housekeeper, customer service representative and the more desirable jobs included things like a manager, project director, IT internship.　　不理想的工作包括仓库工人、管家、客服代表，理想的工作包括经理、项目经理、IT实习生等。　　In all experiments where they were asked, participants were significantly less likely to hire the attractive candidate for the less desirable job and more likely to hire the attractive candidate for the　　在所有实验中，参与者都明显更不愿雇佣颜值高的求职者从事不太理想的工作，而更愿意雇佣他们从事更理想的工作。　　Ms Lee said: ’In the selection decision for an undesirable job, decision makers were more likely to choose the unattractive individual over the attractive individual. We found this effect to occur even with hiring managers.’　　“在不太理想的职位选择决策中，决策者更倾向于选择外貌平平的人而不是颜值高的人。我们发现，就连招聘经理也会受此影响。”　　Co-author Dr Madan Pillutla said: ’It is interesting decision makers take into consideration others’ assumed aspirations in their decisions.　　该研究论文的共同作者梅丹.佩鲁特称：“有趣的是，那些做决定的人让他人的假想意愿影响自己的决定。”　　’Because participants thought that attractive individuals would want better outcomes, and therefore participants predicted that attractive individuals would be less satisfied, they reversed their discrimination pattern and favored unattractive candidates when selecting for a less desirable job.’　　“因为参与者认为，颜值高的人会追求更好的结果，因此他们预测，颜值高的人会感到不满意，他们改变了歧视模式，并因此在招聘不太理想的职位时，青睐长相普通的求职者。”　　The research suggests the established view that attractive candidates are favored when applying for jobs might be limited to high-level jobs that were the predominant focus of past research.　　这项研究表明，既定观念认为，有吸引力的人在求职时更受青睐这一观点可能仅限于高级别的工作，过去研究的主要焦点都集中在这些工作上。