　　近日，日本“现代用语基础知识选 2017 U-CAN新语•流行语大奖”公布，“晒Ins”和“揣度”得到了2017年的年度大奖。呼吁人们在月底的周五尽快结束工作旨在促进消费的“超值星期五”也入选。　　Japan’s most popular buzzwords of the year reflect the scandals that rocked the political arena and the trend of people eager to shoot photogenic items for social media.　　2017年日本年度流行语近日揭晓，有的词汇反映出震动政坛的丑闻，也有的词汇表现出人们热衷在社交媒体晒照的趋势。　　One of the winners — announced Friday — for the 2017 U-Can Shingo Ryukogo Taisho (2017 U-Can New Words and Buzzwords Awards) is “sontaku.”　　评选结果于上周五揭晓。获得2017年日本“现代用语基础知识选 2017 U-CAN新语•流行语大奖”的词汇之一是“揣度”。　　Its meaning is the proactive anticipation of a person’s wish before an explicit order is given. It saw a revival following the Moritomo Gakuen cronyism scandal, in which bureaucrats in charge of approving a new school were suspected of acting in line with the intentions of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe without being actually ordered to do so.　　“揣度”的意思是在明确的指令下达前，揣度某人的意愿。在此前的森友学园任用亲信丑闻中，人们怀疑负责批准新校的官员在日本首相安倍晋三的实际命令下达之前，就按照其意图行事。　　Kang Sang-jung, committee member and political science professor at the University of Tokyo, said it was quite a year for the Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly, in addition to the country’s general elections being held this year. “Hence, many buzzwords are related to politics,” he said.　　东京大学委员会成员及政治学教授Kang Sang-jung说，今年对东京都议会来说很不寻常，另外今年日本还举行了大选，“所以今年的很多流行语都和政治有关。”　　“Sontaku” shared the top honors with “Insuta-bae,” referring to scenes or products that look picture-perfect for the photo-sharing service Instagram, reflecting the power of social media. The trend of sharing snapshots of daily life and observations on Instagram sparked many businesses to come up with Instagram-suited campaigns and photogenic products.　　获评年度最流行用语的还有Insuta-bae，指的是在图片分享应用Ins上看起来非常上镜的美景或有关产品，反映出社交媒体的力量。在Ins上分享日常生活和所见的照片的热潮催生出很多与之相关的广告活动和上镜产品。　　Jiyukokuminsha publishing house also announced eight other top buzzwords, including other political terms like the government’s satellite-based warning system “J-Alert.”　　Jiyukokuminsha出版社还宣布了另外8个跻身十大流行词的词汇，其中也有一些政治相关词汇，比如政府建造的星载警报系统“J警报”。　　The committee also highlighted “Premium Friday”. Premium Friday is a nationwide public-private campaign designed to encourage people to leave work early on the last Friday of every month to increase spending and curtail the nation’s long working hours. It gained little traction.　　委员会选出的词汇还有“超值星期五”。“超值星期五”指的是全日本范围内的一场公私合作的活动，旨在鼓励人们在每月最后一个星期五提前下班，以促进消费，缩短日本较长的工作时间，但收效甚微。　　The committee also said that over half of this year’s top 10 buzzwords contained numbers.　　委员会还表示，今年十大流行语榜单中超过一半的词汇中含有数字。　　The winners were chosen from a short list of 30 words and phrases based on readers’ answers to a questionnaire. The survey is included with an annually published book explaining news events.　　获选词汇是从30个候选词汇和短语中根据读者的问卷调查挑选得出。调查结果列入一本年度出版物，其中还解释了一些相关新闻事件。　　The awards committee also gave “9.98” and “Fujii fever” special prizes, recognizing the popularity and achievements of two astounding prodigies — students sprinter Yoshihide Kiryu, the first Japanese to break the 100-meter race 10-second barrier at 9.98 seconds, and professional shogi player Sota Fujii, 14, who made history by winning 29 consecutive games.　　评选委员会还给“9.98（10秒大关）”和“藤井热潮”颁发了特殊奖项，对这两项创举的人气和成就表示认可。“9.98（10秒大关）”指的是日本学生选手桐生祥秀在100米赛跑中跑出9.98秒，成为首个打破10秒纪录的日本人。“藤井热潮”指的是14岁的日本职业将棋选手藤井连赢29场比赛，创造了历史。　　入围的词语（中文解释为人民网记者加注）：　　“アウフヘーベン”（Aufheben，扬弃，东京都知事小池百合子喜欢使用的词汇）　　“インスタ映え”（scenes or products that look picture-perfect for Instagram，为了在社交媒体“instagram”上发布而使用手机等照出引人注目的照片）　　“うつヌケ”（ getting out of depression，摆脱抑郁，来自漫画书的书名）　　“うんこ漢字ドリル”（poop kanji drill，便便汉字练习，来自练习汉字的书籍）　　“炎上”（something that causes a wave of backlash on social media，被口水淹没，在微博及推特等的发言引来大量批评）　　“ＡＩスピーカー”（AI speakers，智能音箱）　　“9.98（10秒の壁）” （the wall of 10 seconds，10秒大关，日本选手桐生祥秀在100米赛跑中跑出9.98秒，破日本记录）　　“共謀罪”（anti-conspiracy law，共谋罪，来自日本国会强行通过共谋罪法案）　　“GINZA SIX”（银座6，今年在银座开业的大型商业设施）　　“空前絶後の”（unprecedented/like no one before/ unlikely to happen in future，空前绝后的，来自一位艺人的自我介绍）　　“けものフレンズ”（Kemono Friends，兽娘动物园，一部电视动画片的名字）　　“35億”（3.5 billion，35亿）　　“Ｊアラート”（J-Alert，日本全国瞬时警报系统）　　“人生100年時代”（(An era in which you can live 100 years，人生100年时代，日本政府成立人生100年时代构想会议）　　“睡眠負債”（sleep deficit，睡眠负债）　　“線状降水帯”（linear rainbands，线状降雨带，会带来灾害性降水）　　“忖度（そんたく）”（proactively anticipating a person’s wish before an explicit order is given，忖度）　　“ちーがーうーだーろー！”（YOU’VE. GOT. IT. ALL. WRONG!，不对！）　　“刀剣乱舞”（“Wild Dance of Swords”，刀剑乱舞，一款游戏名称）　　“働き方改革”（Work style reform，工作方式改革）　　“ハンドスピナー”（fidget spinner，指尖陀螺，一种玩具）　　“ひふみん”（hifumin，nickname of retired shogi player Hifumi Kato，日本退役棋手加藤一二三的昵称）　　“フェイクニュース”（fake news，假新闻）　　“藤井フィーバー”（popularity of shogi prodigy Sota Fujii，藤井热潮）　　“プレミアムフライデー”（Premium Friday，超值星期五，可以在每月最后一个星期五提前下班）　　“ポスト真実”（ post-truth，后真相）　　“魔の２回生”（ the curse of second-term Diet members，当选两届丑闻缠身的议员）　　“○○ファースト”（~ First， ○○第一）　　“ユーチューバー”（Youtubers，在Youtube网站上通过公开原创视频获取收入并以此为生的人）　　“ワンオペ育児”（Solo child-rearing and completing all household chores alone，职业女性一个人完成家务、育儿等所有工作）　　英文来源：日本时报　　翻译&编审：yaning